Mobile Synchronization
Mobile devices present some challenges for IT professionals. Mobile devices are easily lost, damaged, or stolen. With mobile synchronization,
an IT professional can easily restore all the data stored on a lost or damaged device to a new device. This reading covers mobile synchronization 
on devices for collaboration with productivity platforms. 

Mobile synchronization as backup 
Most mobile OS platforms have built-in ways to backup mobile data to the cloud. For detailed steps on how to back up an Andriod or iOS device
click below: 

Back up or restore data on your Android device
https://support.google.com/android/answer/2819582?hl=en
How to back up your iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch
https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT203977#icloud
These backup methods help preserve the data carried on a mobile device and exchange it with other devices. They preserve the key types of data 
that a user wants to have backed up:
App data
Call history
Contacts
Settings
SMS messages
Pictures and videos
MMS messages

As a backup method, mobile synchronization allows an IT professional to move the user’s data seamlessly to a new device.

Mobile synchronization for collaboration and productivity platforms
Mobile synchronization is essential to today’s collaboration and productivity platforms, such as Microsoft 365 and Google Workspace. These are
account-based platforms that allow the user to link familiar productivity software and apps to a particular user or company profile. This way one
username and password connects the user to the files, photos, people, and content needed to sync across different instances of the software or 
app.

Sync Microsoft 365 to a mobile device
To sync Microsoft 365 to a mobile device, the user needs to have a Microsoft account. With a Microsoft account, a user can set up Office apps and
email on an iOS or Android mobile device. This setup process typically involves installing and setting up the Outlook mobile app for email, and
the Office mobile app for other Microsoft tools, like Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. The following link provides detailed guidance on how to set up
these capabilities on a device:

Set up Office apps and email on an iOS or Android mobile device
https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/set-up-office-apps-and-email-on-a-mobile-device-7dabb6cb-0046-40b6-81fe-767e0b1f014f
Use apps provided by Microsoft to sync the account with your device (consult your app store to find apps developed by Microsoft). 

Sync Google Workspace to a mobile device
To sync email, calendar, and contacts using Google Workspace on an iOS or Android mobile device:
https://support.google.com/a/users/answer/9282663#device-setup
Set up Google Workspace on a device

Use apps provided by Google to sync the account with your device (consult your app store to find apps developed by Google).

To ensure that users have the most up-to-date information it is important to synchronize mobile devices on a regular basis. 

Key takeaways
Mobile synchronization allows for data to be recovered if a mobile device is lost or damaged. It also ensures users have the most up-to-date 
information on any platform they use. 

Mobile OS platforms have built-in ways to backup the data carried on your mobile device and exchange with other devices.

Account-based platforms link familiar productivity software and apps to a particular user profile. One username and password syncs files, photos,
people, and content across different instances of the software or app.
