Qwiklabs Assessment: Utilizing Active Directory
Learning Objectives

Getting familiar with Active Directory

Applying a global policy with Active Directory

Creating groups and managing accounts with Active Directory

Introduction

Active Directory is a core tool for System Administrators that need to manage Windows machines.  Active Directory allows to manage users, groups, machines, and the policies that apply to all of them in a centralized fashion.

What you’ll do

In this lab, you'll interact with Active Directory, use it to add users and groups, edit users memberships as well as create a new group policy object (GPO).

Introduction
Active Directory is a core tool for system administrators who need to manage Windows machines. Active Directory allows you to manage users, groups, machines, and the policies that apply to all of them in a centralized fashion.

In this lab, you'll interact with Active Directory, use it to add users and groups, edit users memberships as well as create a new group policy object (GPO).

Heads up: Make sure to click the "Start Lab" button at the top of the screen. There can be a significant delay for the lab to load. Please wait until the lab is running. To mark this lab as completed, make sure to click "End Lab" when you're done!

You'll have 90 minutes to complete this lab.

Start the lab

Installing and Configuring Active Directory
First, you will need to install and configure Active Directory. This is a complicated process, so we have provided PowerShell scripts to automate most of it. Please follow the following instructions carefully.

After logging in, open PowerShell as an Administrator. You can open PowerShell as an Administrator by opening the Start Menu, right-clicking the icon and selecting "More", then "Run as Administrator".

Screenshot of Windows Start menu, with the right-click / context menu open for Windows PowerShell. The menu option More is selected, then Run as administrator.

In PowerShell, run the following command:

C:\Qwiklabs\ADSetup\active_directory_install.ps1
Copied!
This will run for a couple of minutes. It will print a few warnings, but don't worry, those are expected. When it's done, the script will pop-up a message indicating that it will restart the computer, which you should accept. Wait a few minutes for the computer to restart, then log back in.

Note: If Windows does not restart in 5 minutes, please go back to the lab page and again click on “Open Windows VM”.
Active Directory has now been installed, but it still needs to be configured. This should be simpler than the previous task; run the following command and continue with the rest of the lab when it finishes:

C:\Qwiklabs\ADSetup\configure_active_directory.ps1
Copied!
Managing Users and Groups
Once the above setup is done, you are now ready to experiment with Active Directory.

Open the Active Directory Administrative Center (ADAC). You can find it by typing "active" into the Windows start menu.

Screenshot of Windows Search with "active" in the search bar. Results show Active Directory Administrative Center, which is highlighted by the cursor.

The Active Directory Administrative Center allows you to manage your Active Directory installation, by configuring users, groups, computers, and more. Feel free to browse around the resources that already exist in the directory.

Screenshot of Active Directory Administrative Center.

For this lab, we want to create a new user called Alex. To do that, first click on the example (local) entry. This is the entry for the domain that your account can manage. Then scroll down and double click on the Users entry to see the list of users and groups that currently exist.

Adding users

To create a new user, take a look at the tasks list on the right. Under the Users section, there's a New menu entry, which opens a submenu to select what's the type of entity that you want to create. In this case, we want to create a new user, so click User.

Screenshot of the Users section, with New selected, then User selected.

This will open a new window that lets you fill in a number of fields related to the new user. There are a lot of fields available, but only a couple are mandatory (indicated with the red star). You can leave the rest empty. The user that we are creating is called Alex, with their username being also alex.

Screenshot of "Create User" page. Mandatory fields are filled out for the user, Alex.

Once you've entered the necessary data, click the OK button to have the user created.

If you click on the newly created account, you will see that where it displays the name of the user, the system says Alex (Disabled).

Screenshot of list of users. The right-click / context menu is open for the user, Alex, with the option to Enable.

What happens if you right click on the entry and try to Enable it?

Screenshot of error message dialog box from Active Directory Domain Services. Error message reads "Failed to enable to the account. The password does not meet the length, complexity, or history requirement of the domain."

The system will not enable an account that doesn't have a good password. In this case, the password is empty because we haven't set it. Obviously, an empty password is not a good password.

You can set a password using the Reset password menu option. By having the User must change password at next logon option selected, we ensure that the user will change their password when they log in. The goal of this is that after they've logged in once, the system administrator will not know their new password.

Screenshot of Reset Password dialog box, with the option "User must change password at next login" selected.

Once you've set a good password, you can retry enabling the account. This time it should work.

Adding groups

Let's now add a new group. If you browse through the existing groups, you will see that there's a group called Developers and a group called Java Developers. We now want to add an additional group, called Python Developers. Add the new group to the Developers group, then add the account we just created for Alex to the Python Developers group.

To create a new group, use the same menu that you used for creating a new user, but this time select the new Group option.

Screenshot of Users menu, with New selected, and then Group.

This will open a similar window to the one that we saw before, but this time it requires the data for the Group rather than the user.

Screenshot of Create Group dialog box, with required fields completed with "Python Developers".

We are creating a group called Python Developers and that's the only data that is mandatory. You can also add additional information in the Description and Notes, if you want. Once you are done, click OK to have the group created.

Adding entities to groups

We have a Python Developers group, now we want to add it to the Developers group that already exists. We can do this by scrolling down to the new entry and then right clicking on the entry in the list and selecting the Add to another group entry.

Screenshot of the list of users, with the right-click / context menu open on Python Developers group. In the right-click menu, "Add to another group" is highlighted by the cursor.

This will open a small window where we need to enter the name of the group. In this case, the group is called Developers.

Screenshot of popup window. In the field "Enter the object names to select", Developers is entered in the field.

You can use the Check Names button to verify that you have entered the name correctly. If you have, it will underline the text. If the name is incorrect, it will show a window saying "Name Not Found."

Clicking the OK button will add the Python Developers group to the Developers group. We now want to do the same for adding Alex to Python Developers. But we'll follow a different path.

In this case, we will double click the Python Developers entry in the list, which will open up an editing window for the group.

Screenshot of editing window for Python Developers group.

You can scroll down until you find the Members section of this window, or you can click on the Members link on the left. This section allows us to manually add or remove members from the group.

Screenshot of editing window for Python Developers group. The dialog box for adding members or groups is open. In the field "Enter the object names to select", Alex is entered.

In this case, what we want to do is to add Alex to the group, so click the Add button, enter Alex in the text field and then OK for the addition and OK for saving the changes. We've successfully added a new member, Alex, into the Group!

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.

Create new Python Developers group, member of Developers
Editing memberships

Finally, there's an existing user called Alosha that has switched from programming in Java to programming in Python, we want to remove this user from the Java Developers group and add them to the Python Developers group.

To do this, look for the user Alosha in the list and double click on the entry. This will open the properties of the user that you will be able to edit. There's a lot of configuration to each user, click on the section on the left called Member Of.

Screenshot of properties for the user, Alosha. The screenshot is showing "Member Of" settings, which show what groups Alosha is a member of.

We can see that Alosha is a member of the Domain Users group (all users of the domain are members of this group) and of the Java Developers group. You can select the Java Developers entry and click the Remove button to remove that group.

The click the Add button to add a new membership.

Screenshot of the "Select Groups" dialog box that appears when the "Add" option is selected from "Member Of" settings.

This will pop-up a small window where you need to enter the name of the group that you want to add, in this case Python Developers. Once you are done, click OK in the Select Groups window and then OK in the editing user window.

With that, we've created users and groups and we've added and removed group memberships using Active Directory. Let's now look into how to manage group policies.

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.

Add Alosha and Alex to Python Developers
Managing Group Policies
To manage group policies, we need to use the Group Policy Management application. You can find it by typing group into the Windows start menu.

Screenshot of Windows Search, with "group" entered into the search bar. Best match shows "Group Policy Management" which is highlighted by the cursor.

This application allows you to set policies that will manage the way machines in your domain behave. You can apply these policies to the whole domain or to separate Organizational Units (OUs).

In our case, we want to add a new policy to the Developers OU that already exists in the domain. To do that, expand the tree until you reach the example.com domain tree and find the Developers OU inside it.

Screenshot of Group Policy Management tool with the example.com domain tree expanded. The right-click / context menu is open for "Developers OU" with the option "Create a GPO in this domain and link it here" highlighted by the cursor.

To create a new policy, right click on the entry and select the first menu entry: Create a GPO in this domain and Link it here.

When you click this option, you will be prompted to set a name for the policy and once you do, the policy will get added to the OU.

Screenshot of New GPO dialog box, with the name entered as "New Wallpaper".

We want to set a default wallpaper for the machines in the Developers OU, so we will call our policy "New Wallpaper"

Once created, we want to edit the policy, to do this, right-click on the entry and click on the first menu entry: Edit.

Screenshot of right-click / context menu open for the New Wallpaper policy, with the Edit option highlighted by the cursor.

Note: You may get a warning message about what linking policies means. That's ok, you can just accept the warning and move on.

This will open a new application: the Group Policy Management Editor. This application allows you to navigate and configure all settings that can be set in a group policy.

As we want to set the wallpaper, we need to navigate to this setting by going to: User Configuration > Policies > Administrative Templates > Desktop > Desktop

Screenshot of Group Policy Management Editor following the path User > Configuration > Policies > Administrative Templates > Desktop > Desktop. Within the folder, Desktop Wallpaper is selected.

This opens a list of possible settings that we can configure, including the Desktop Wallpaper. To set the wallpaper to a specific value, double-click on the Desktop Wallpaper entry.

Screenshot of Desktop Wallpaper entry settings.

The window that opens allows you to set the value of the wallpaper. To do that, first click on the Enabled button and then enter a path for the wallpaper. The path could be a local path in the machine or a network path on a server that shares files.

For this lab, simply enter C:\Qwiklabs\wallpaper.jpg in the section Wallpaper Name.

Once you click OK, the group policy is created and contains the values we want. To verify this, go back to the Group Policy Management application and click the Settings tab of the new policy.

Note: This may show a warning that the application needs to be allowed to generate web content. You will need to Add the application as a trusted website in order to view its contents.

Screenshot of New Wallpaper policy settings.

By clicking the show links in the webpage, you can see that the policy has been defined and that the only setting being modified is the Desktop Wallpaper, which is set to the value we set above.

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.

Create "New Wallpaper" policy
Conclusion
You've now seen how to manage users, groups and group policies using Active Directory. There's a lot more to learn about AD, but these skills are the building blocks for administering a fleet of Windows computers.

Keep it up!

End your lab
