Introduction to Git and GitHub
by Google

About this Course
In this course, you’ll learn how to keep track of the different versions of your code and configuration files using a popular version control system (VCS) called Git. We'll also go through how to setup an account with a service called GitHub so that you can create your very own remote repositories to store your code and configuration. 

Throughout this course, you'll learn about Git's core functionality so you can understand how and why it’s used in organizations. We’ll look into both basic and more advanced features, like branches and merging. We'll demonstrate how having a working knowledge of a VCS like Git can be a lifesaver in emergency situations or when debugging. And then we'll explore how to use a VCS to work with others through remote repositories, like the ones provided by GitHub.

By the end of this course, you'll be able to store your code's history in Git and collaborate with others in GitHub, where you’ll also start creating your own portfolio! 

In order to follow along and complete the assessments, you’ll need a computer where you can install Git or ask your administrator to install it for you.


 More
Basic Info	
Course 3 of 6 in the Google IT Automation with Python Specialization
Level	Beginner
Language	
English, Subtitles: Arabic, French, Portuguese (European), Italian, Vietnamese, German, Russian, Spanish
Volunteer to translate subtitles for this course
How To Pass	Pass all graded assignments to complete the course.
User Ratings	
Average User Rating 4.8
Syllabus
WEEK 1
Introduction to Version Control
In this module, you'll be introduced to the concept of version control, which will make managing and rolling back your code look super easy. You’ll learn how to differentiate between files and the tools at your disposal to make this happen. Next, you'll be introduced to Git and how you can leverage that platform to improve your coding abilities. Once you’ve got a grasp on what Git is, you’ll install it and start using it to create and clone code repositories. Last up, you’ll deep dive into Git in order to get more familiar with the different tools and commands it has to offer.

Show less
16 videos, 6 readings, 3 practice quizzes
Video: Course Introduction
Reading: Welcome to the Course
Discussion Prompt: Meet & Greet
Video: Intro to Module 1: Version Control
Video: Keeping Historical Copies
Video: Diffing Files
Video: Applying Changes
Video: Practical Application of diff and patch
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Before Version Control
Reading: diff and patch Cheat Sheet
Video: What is version control?
Video: Version Control and Automation
Video: What is Git?
Reading: More Information About Git
Video: Installing Git
Video: Installing Git on Windows (Optional)
Reading: Installing Git
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Version Control Systems
Video: First Steps with Git
Video: Tracking Files
Video: The Basic Git Workflow
Video: Anatomy of a Commit Message
Reading: Initial Git Cheat Sheet
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Using Git
Video: Module 1 Wrap Up: Intro to Version Control
Reading: How to Log in to Qwiklabs
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: Qwiklabs Assessment: Introduction to Git
WEEK 2
Using Git Locally
In this module, you’ll dive into advanced Git interactions by skipping the staging area for small code changes, and understand how Git uses the HEAD alias to represent checked-out snapshots. Next, you’ll explore how to move and remove files before finally getting a cheat sheet to help you in your Git explorations! The next step of your learning will include how to undo changes before committing and how to amend commits once they’re submitted. Finally, you’ll be able to identify errors in commits that were submitted a while back. In the final section of this module, you’ll explore the concept of branching and merging. You’ll learn what a branch is, how to create one, and how they work in harmony with you and your code. Once you’re comfortable with branching, you’ll dive into merging, how it works with branched data, and how to deal with merge conflicts.

Show less
14 videos, 3 readings, 3 practice quizzes
Video: Intro to Module 2: Using Git Locally
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt
Video: Skipping the Staging Area
Video: Getting More Information About Our Changes
Video: Deleting and Renaming Files
Reading: Advanced Git Cheat Sheet
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Advanced Git Interaction
Video: Undoing Changes Before Committing
Video: Amending Commits
Video: Rollbacks
Video: Identifying a Commit
Reading: Git Revert Cheat Sheet
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Undoing Things
Video: What is a branch?
Video: Creating New Branches
Video: Working with Branches
Video: Merging
Video: Merge Conflicts
Reading: Git Branches and Merging Cheat Sheet
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Branching & Merging
Video: Module 2 Wrap Up: Using Git Locally
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Qwiklabs Assessment: Merging Branches in Git
WEEK 3
Working with Remotes
In this module, you’ll be introduced to GitHub and learn how it works with Git. You’ll create new repositories and clone those repositories onto your computer. Next, we’ll explain what a remote repository is, how we can work with them, and how we can host them. You’ll get familiar with commands like modify, stage, and commit, which will be used for local changes, as well as the fetch command, which can pull any changes from remote repositories. Our final lesson will focus on learning about conflicts. This will allow you to explore the concepts of pull-merge-push workflows, pushing remote branches and rebasing your changes.

Show less
13 videos, 3 readings, 3 practice quizzes
Video: Intro to Module 3: Working with Remotes
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt
Video: What is GitHub?
Video: Basic Interaction with GitHub
Reading: Basic Interaction with GitHub Cheat-Sheet
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Introduction to GitHub
Video: What is a remote?
Video: Working with Remotes
Video: Fetching New Changes
Video: Updating the Local Repository
Reading: Git Remotes Cheat-Sheet
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Using a Remote Repository
Video: The Pull-Merge-Push Workflow
Video: Pushing Remote Branches
Video: Rebasing Your Changes
Video: Another Rebasing Example
Video: Best Practices for Collaboration
Reading: Conflict Resolution Cheat Sheet
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Solving Conflicts
Video: Module 3 Wrap Up: Working with Remotes
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt

Show lessweek 3 material
Graded: Qwiklabs Assessment: Introduction to Github
WEEK 4
Collaboration
In this module, you’ll continue to explore the collaboration tools available in Git. You’ll learn about the tools that are available to help improve the quality of your code and to better track your code. This includes an overview of pull requests and how the typical workflow of a pull request looks like on GitHub. Next, you’ll dive into how you can squash changes in your code. We’ll finish up by providing you with a cheat sheet on fork and pull requests. Next up, we’ll cover what code reviews are and what the code review workflow looks like. Then, you’ll learn about how to use code reviews on GitHub. The final lesson of this module will focus on managing projects. We’ll take a rundown of best practices on managing projects and how to manage collaboration within those projects. We’ll explore different ways of tracking issues and finish up by discussing the concept of continuous integration with your projects.

Show less
14 videos, 3 readings, 3 practice quizzes
Video: Intro to Module 4: Collaboration
Video: A Simple Pull Request on GitHub
Video: The Typical Pull Request Workflow on GitHub
Video: Updating an Existing Pull Request
Video: Squashing Changes
Reading: Git Fork and Pull Request Cheat Sheet
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Pull Requests
Video: What are code reviews?
Video: The Code Review Workflow
Video: How to Use Code Reviews in GitHub
Reading: More Information on Code Reviews
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Code Reviews
Video: Managing Collaboration
Video: Tracking Issues
Video: Continuous Integration
Reading: Additional Tools
Practice Quiz: Practice Quiz: Managing Collaboration
Video: Module 4 Wrap Up: Collaboration
Video: Congratulations!
Discussion Prompt: Your Learner Journey
Video: Sneak Peek of the Next Course

Show lessweek 4 material
Graded: Qwiklabs Assessment: Pushing Local Commits to Github
