Deceptive Attacks
Previously, you learned about the dangers of socially engineered deceptive attacks. In this reading, you will review this topic and learn about a 
few more types of socially engineered deceptive attacks. Social engineering attacks are unique as compared to other types of attacks. Social 
engineering requires cybercriminals to use psychology to trick victims into providing information to the cybercriminal. In other types of cyber 
attacks, the cybercriminals use computers and other digital tools to hack computers and networks without engaging and deceiving individual victims.

Cybercriminals may use deceptive attacks to disguise their identities, intents, and motives. Through social engineering techniques, 
these cybercriminals attempt to trick victims into revealing private information, such as a credit card number or login credentials. 
The cybercriminal might disguise their identity by pretending to be from a reputable organization or to be an individual that the victim might
trust, like a friend or work colleague. Socially engineered deceptive attacks can happen through websites, email, text messaging, phone calls,
in-person interactions, and more. Cybercriminals often find deception through social engineering to be an easy means for hacking a computer
system, simply because many technology users are not aware that this type of threat exists. Others may be aware of the potential for a deceptive 
cybercriminal attack, but are not sure how to recognize the deception and, further, to prevent themselves from being deceived

Social engineering attacks have increased in recent years. These attacks have changed how organizations approach their cybersecurity policies.
It is important for organizations to train their employees on how to recognize a deceptive attack. A single employee that is tricked into entering 
their company login and password into a fake login window could create an opportunity for a catastrophic criminal attack against an organization’s
network.

Deceptive attacks over the internet
There are many types of social engineering attacks. Some of the more common attacks include:

Phishing: A cybercriminal may use email and text messaging to “fish” or phish for victims that will take the cybercriminal’s bait. One basic type 
of phishing bait may include a convincing story to trick the victim into replying to the email with personal or sensitive information. Another 
common phishing scam includes using “clickbait” links. These phishing messages entice victims to click on a link by using bait such as popular pet
videos, gossip, news scandals, opportunities to win money or prizes, lewd images or videos, etc. If the recipient clicks on the link, they become
victim to the next phase of the malicious attack, which could be some type of forced download of malware, ransomware, viruses, keyloggers, 
trackers, and more.

Spoofing: Cybercriminals use this technique to alter the header on phishing emails in order to appear to originate  from a legitimate business or
reputable person. For example, a spoofed email might use a fake header that appears to be from a bank. The body of the email might ask the victim
to click a given link to log into their bank account to fix a “problem”. The link leads to the cybercriminal’s fake website that looks identical 
to the bank website and exists only to collect the bank login credentials from victims. The fake website might even give the victim an error 
message and forward them to the real bank to try to login again. This technique keeps the victim from immediately recognizing they have been 
scammed because the second login attempt on the real website is usually successful. 

Spear phishing: A cybercriminal might use details about a victim’s life to win the victim’s trust. For example, the criminal might first purchase 
data from a social media platform that provides personal information about the platform’s users. The cybercriminal then uses this data to target 
or “spear” specific individuals. The cybercriminal could select a name from a user’s friends list and create a spoofed email that appears to be 
from that friend. The spoofed email may say something as simple as, “look at this photo I found of you online!” The email may also include an 
attachment or a clickbait link that leads to the next stage of the attack.   

Whaling: When a cybercriminal wants to spear phish a big target or “whale,” they will spend more time and effort deceiving the victim. A whale 
target is typically someone in a position of power, such as a wealthy and/or famous person, an executive of a company, or a high-level government
employee. The whale is targeted because of the likelihood that they have the ability to pay high ransomware fees, trade valuable information or 
confidential data, or may be vulnerable to blackmail. 

Vishing: Cybercriminals use Voice over IP (VoIP) to make phone calls or leave voice messages pretending to be from reputable companies in order 
to trick victims into revealing personal information, such as banking details and credit card numbers. Although telephone scams have been running 
for decades, vishing with VoIP makes it easier for cybercriminals to hide their true identity. VoIP calls are significantly more difficult to
trace than landline calls.   


Targeted and in-person deceptive attacks 
Shoulder surfing: This malicious attack might have a specific victim or organization as their target. Shoulder surfing happens when a person looks
over a victim’s shoulder to watch them enter login credentials, credit card numbers, or other sensitive information. For example, a temporary 
contractor for an organization may look over the shoulder of an employee to watch the employee enter their login info. The temporary employee’s 
goal might be to steal credentials in order to illegally obtain confidential company data or plant ransomware. 

Tailgating: This in-person attack is a form of social engineering in which an unauthorized party gains physical access to a restricted area by 
simply following a person or group of persons who have authorized access. For example, a criminal wanting to gain physical access to an 
organization’s computer network might dress in business clothing and follow a group of coworkers coming back from lunch. One member of the 
group may use their key card to open the door, then hold the door open for the rest of the group, as well as the criminal who is dressed and 
behaving as though they belong in the building. The criminal may even have a fake ID card to show anyone who questions them.   

Impersonation: This attack might happen over email, text messaging, or a phone call. The attacker impersonates someone who should have access 
to an organization’s computer network. For example, the attacker might call the IT Support team to request help with a password reset. 
Alternatively, the attacker might pretend to be a member of an organization’s IT Support team. They may call an employee to ask them to change 
some settings on their computer to fix a fake problem. These changes are intended to open a door for the cybercriminal to gain access to the 
organization’s network. 

Dumpster Diving: This in-person attack involves the attacker literally digging through the trash of an individual or organization to hunt for
confidential information, like financial or customer information. Shredding all confidential documents is an easy way to prevent this type of 
attack. 

Evil twin: This type of attack involves the cybercriminal installing Wi-Fi routers that appear to belong to an organization's network. These
Wi-Fi access points may not require a password and might appear to offer a stronger signal than the real Wi-Fi router. When victims connect to 
the fake Wi-Fi access point, the cybercriminal gains access to the victim’s wireless transmissions, which can include login credentials and other
sensitive information.  

As an IT Support professional, it is important to train the people and organizations you support on how to identify and protect from socially
engineered attacks. These training sessions should be offered to all new employees, contractors, and anyone else who may have access to the
organization’s network. Additionally, the training sessions should be repeated on a frequent schedule as new, more sophisticated cybercrime 
techniques emerge. One best practice method for keeping network users always on alert for attacks, is for IT Support staff to periodically stage
harmless attacks that target network users. This method is used to test how effective the training classes have been and how long the users are 
able to recall how to protect themselves against an attack. Instead of stealing the user’s private information, the harmless attack makes users
aware that they fell for a scam, and provides reminders on how to protect themselves against real cybercriminal attacks in the future.
