Physical Security
Physical security measures protect technical assets and data from unauthorized physical access. This reading covers common physical security methods. 


Diagram of physical security measures in an office environment


Physical security measures 
Physical security measures make it harder for intruders to gain access, steal, or damage IT equipment and data. Here are some common methods:  

A. Guards monitor controlled access points throughout a facility to prevent unauthorized access.

B. Door locks allow an area to be restricted. Only people with an authorized unlocking mechanism, like a key or security badge, can gain access to
  the restricted area.

C. Equipment locks can restrict the movement of sensitive equipment, like servers, storage media, or terminals, by anchoring them to a less mobile
  structure. Only people with an authorized unlocking mechanism, like a key or security badge, can release the controlled equipment from its 
  anchored location.

D. Video surveillance: Video cameras allow continuous observation and recorded activity playback within controlled areas. Video surveillance can
  document who accesses a controlled area, how they access it, and what they do there.

E. Alarm systems notify security by sounding an alarm or sending a message when a controlled area is accessed.

F. Motion sensors are devices that detect movement within a controlled area. Motion sensors can trigger alarm systems or video surveillance.

Protecting the entry points of a building 

G. Access control vestibules create a space between two sets of interlocking doors or gateways to prevent unauthorized individuals from following 
  authorized individuals into controlled facilities. 

H. Badge readers are devices that read information encoded into a plastic card. They identify each user by the badge they present to the device.
  Badge readers can be used to control electrically operated door locks and can be built into computer terminals to control access to information.

Protecting the outside of a building

I. Bollards are sturdy, short, vertical posts placed to restrict access of vehicles to a controlled area.

J. Fences are physical barriers, with many different designs, that enclose controlled areas to establish a perimeter and keep out external threats.

New technologies for physical security continue to evolve. Your IT security planning should include reviewing the newest methods for securing your
  organization’s assets and information.

Key takeaways
It’s essential to ensure that an organization’s technical assets and data are protected physically and virtually.

Physical security includes measures that help protect technical assets and data from unauthorized physical access.

You should stay current with the newest methods for physically securing your organization’s assets and information.
