BYOD
In this reading, you will learn about a business practice called “bring your own device” (BYOD), as well as the security risks related to BYOD 
  policies and how to mitigate these risks. Organizations can reduce IT costs by limiting the number of company-owned mobile devices issued to 
  employees. Instead, businesses are passing on the costs of mobile devices and cellular services to employees by allowing employees to bring
  their own devices for business use.
 
Bring your own device (BYOD)
Traditionally, IT departments would provide mobile devices to employees for business use. This gave the IT staff control over the security of 
  those devices. Today, an increasing number of companies permit employees to bring their own devices to work. This trend started with employees 
  requesting permission to carry a single smartphone rather than carrying one phone for work and one for personal use. Organizations noticed the
  cost savings gained by allowing their employees to select their personal smartphones as the single device. By using smartphones with dual SIM 
  card slots or phone apps like Google Voice, users can configure multiple phone lines on a single smartphone. However, BYODs can become dangerous
  security threats to companies’ data and networks. IT departments do not have the same level of control over the security of BYOD devices as they
  would with company-owned devices.

BYOD Threats
Some of the potential threats BYODs pose to company networks, resources, and data include:
Loss or theft could result in an organization’s data being stolen or the lost device being used to gain unauthorized access to a company’snetwork.

Data loss, including:
Data leakage losses can happen when a computing device is lost or compromised; when an employee accidentally saves or sends confidential
  information to the wrong destination; when a disgruntled employee exposes data maliciously; or when viruses, malware, phishing attacks, etc.
  penetrate organizations’ networks.   
Data portability losses can occur when former employees take company data with them on their BYOD when they resign or are fired by the 
  organization. 
Security vulnerabilities are any type of weakness in the security of a device or network that provides access for a threat to penetrate the system.
Meddler in the middle attacks (MITM) occur when an attacker monitors the data transfers between two sources with the intent to copy and/or
  interfere with that information. One of the most common opportunities for an MITM attack arises  when a mobile device accesses important 
  information through a public Wi-Fi connection, such as at a hotel or restaurant. 
Malware is malicious software that can be used to steal, modify, or delete data. It can also be used to gain unauthorized access to a device or
  network.
Jailbreaking happens when a manufacturer’s protective restrictions are removed on a mobile device. Without these restrictions, a device becomes 
  vulnerable to the risk of the user unknowingly installing malicious software.

Solutions
To mitigate these threats, organizations and their IT departments should design security policies for BYOD use inside company networks. Some 
  preventative steps could include:
Develop a bring your own device (BYOD) policy: IT departments and organizations can create written policies that detail the minimum technology
  requirements for permitted BYODs, provide instructions for employees on how to properly secure their devices, and list the rules for safe 
  data access and storage. 
Use Mobile Device Management (MDM) software: MDM software can be used to enforce BYOD policy requirements for mobile devices to help secure
  company data and networks. IT departments can use MDM software to: 
Automatically install apps and updates, including antivirus and anti-malware software
Configure secure connections to an organization’s wireless networks 
Encrypt storage on devices
Require a lock screen and password
Remote wipe a mobile device that is lost or stolen
Block the execution of certain apps
Meet compliance standards
Prevent data being shared or stored in unauthorized locations
Manage devices remotely
Use an Enterprise Mobile Management (EMM) system: MDM policies are specific to mobile operating systems. In order to distribute MDM 
  policies across Android, iOS, and other mobile operating systems, the BYODs can be enrolled through an Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM)
  system.
  
Require the use of multi-factor authentication (MFA): Users can be authenticated by presenting more than one method of identification. Some 
  common identification factors include:
Something you know: a password or pin number
Something you have: a physical token, like an ATM or bank card, USB device, key fob, or OTP (one-time password)
Something you are: biometric data, like a fingerprint, voice signature, facial recognition, or retina scan 
Somewhere you are: location-dependent access, like a Global Positioning System (GPS) location
Something you do: gestures, like swipe patterns; Turing tests, like CAPTCHA; or normal patterns of behavior, like regular login and logout times 

Set an acceptable use policy (AUP): Organizations could create policies that set a code of conduct for use of the companies’ data, systems,
  network, and other resources. 
Use non-disclosure agreements (NDA): Organizations can create legally binding contracts with employees to assert the confidentiality and 
  security policies for the companies’ data and intellectual property. 
Restrict data access: IT departments should protect company data by limiting access to only those employees who need access to perform their jobs.  
Educate staff about data security: Organizations can provide training manuals and seminars to inform employees about network security risks and
  to instruct on how to secure their BYODs.
Back up device data: IT departments need to create backup policies for all important data. This should include a schedule for frequency of 
  backups, storage space for the back-up copies, how long back-ups should be stored, and disaster recovery plans. 
Data leakage prevention (DLP): IT departments can implement DLP software solutions to help manage and protect confidential information. 

Key takeaways
Organizations are taking advantage of the cost savings created by adopting “bring your own device” (BYOD) policies for employees. However,
  permitting employees to connect personal mobile devices to company networks introduces multiple security threats. There are a variety of 
  security measures that IT departments can implement to protect organizations’ information systems:
Develop BYOD policies
Enforce BYOD policies with MDM software
Distribute MDM settings to multiple OSes through EMM systems
Require multi-factor authentication (MFA)
Create acceptable use policies for company data and resources
Require employees to sign NDAs
Limit who can access data
Train employees on data security
Back up data regularly

Resources for more information
BYOD (bring your own device) - Additional information on how BYOD works, why is it important, level of access options, risks, challenges, policy
  comparisons, best practices, how to implement a BYOD policy.
https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/definition/BYOD-bring-your-own-device
BYOD policy: An in-depth guide from an IT leader - Compares BYOD advantages and disadvantages, what should be included in a BYOD policy, tips 
  for reducing security risks, and more.
https://www.dialpad.com/blog/byod-policy/
What is MDM? - Introduces the purpose of MDM software, how it works, advantages of using MDM, use cases, and more.
https://www.manageengine.com/mobile-device-management/what-is-mdm.html
Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) - Outlines the features, services, and benefits of EMM systems. 
https://www.manageengine.com/mobile-device-management/enterprise-mobility-management-emm.html?network=g&device=c&keyword=enterprise%20mobility%20management&campaignid=10047966928&creative=479014654278&matchtype=p&adposition=&placement=&adgroup=108476453023&targetid=kwd-10879221579&gclid=Cj0KCQjwkruVBhCHARIsACVIiOxm1_vkFiOK2IXWj2cw2f_7lJGQdIzjl9sn0nY9nl9i9_TKolc9i_IaAluCEALw_wcB
