IT Security: Defense against the digital dark arts
by Google

About this Course
This course covers a wide variety of IT security concepts, tools, and best practices. It introduces threats and attacks and the many ways they can show up. We’ll give you some background of encryption algorithms and how they’re used to safeguard data. Then, we’ll dive into the three As of information security: authentication, authorization, and accounting. We’ll also cover network security solutions, ranging from firewalls to Wifi encryption options. The course is rounded out by putting all these elements together into a multi-layered, in-depth security architecture, followed by recommendations on how to integrate a culture of security into your organization or team.

At the end of this course, you’ll understand:
● how various encryption algorithms and techniques work as well as their benefits and limitations.
● various authentication systems and types.
● the difference between authentication and authorization.
● how to evaluate potential risks and recommend ways to reduce risk.
● best practices for securing a network.
● how to help others to grasp security concepts and protect themselves.

Syllabus
Week 1
Understanding Security Threats
Welcome to the IT Security course of the IT Support Professional Certificate! In the first week of this course, we will cover the basics of security in an IT environment. We will learn how to define and recognize security risks, vulnerabilities and threats. We'll identify the most common security attacks in an organization and understand how security revolves around the "CIA" principle. By the end of this module, you will know the types of malicious software, network attacks, client-side attacks, and the essential security terms you'll see in the workplace.

Show less
10 videos, 11 readings, 3 practice quizzes
Video: Course Introduction
Reading: Navigating Coursera
Reading: Program Surveys
Reading: How to Use Discussion Forums
Reading: Get to Know Your Classmates
Discussion Prompt: Meet and Greet
Video: The CIA Triad
Video: Essential Security Terms
Video: Malicious Software
Reading: Antimalware Protection, Malware Removal
Video: Malware Continued
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Malicious Software
Practice Quiz: Malicious Software
Video: Network Attacks
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Network Attacks
Video: Denial-of-Service
Reading: Supplemental Reading for DDoS Attacks
Practice Quiz: Network Attacks
Video: Client-Side Attacks
Video: Password Attacks
Video: Deceptive Attacks
Reading: Deceptive Attacks
Reading: Physical Security
Discussion Prompt: Malicious Software & Attacks
Reading: Module 1 Glossary
Practice Quiz: Other Attacks

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: Understanding Security Threats

Week 2
Pelcgbybtl (Cryptology)
In the second week of this course, we'll learn about cryptology. We'll explore different types of encryption practices and how they work. We'll show you the most common algorithms used in cryptography and how they've evolved over time. By the end of this module, you'll understand how symmetric encryption, asymmetric encryption, and hashing work; you'll also know how to choose the most appropriate cryptographic method for a scenario you may see in the workplace.

14 videos, 10 readings, 5 practice quizzes
Video: Cryptography
Reading: Supplemental Reading for The Future of Cryptanalysis
Video: Symmetric Cryptography
Video: Symmetric Encryption Algorithms
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Symmetric Encryptions
Practice Quiz: Symmetric Encryption
Video: Rob: The work of a security engineer
Video: Asymmetric Cryptography
Video: Asymmetric Encryption Algorithms
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Asymmetric Encryption Attack
Practice Quiz: Public Key or Asymmetric Encryption
Video: Hashing
Video: Hashing Algorithms
Reading: Supplemental Reading for SHA1 Attacks
Video: Hashing Algorithms (continued)
Practice Quiz: Hashing
Video: Public Key Infrastructure
Reading: Supplemental Reading for the X.509 Standard
Video: Cryptography in Action
Reading: Supplemental Reading for PGP
Video: Securing Network Traffic
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Securing Network Traffic
Video: Cryptographic Hardware
Reading: Supplemental Reading for TPM Attacks
Video: Rejection
Practice Quiz: Cryptography Applications
Practice Quiz: Week Two Practice Quiz
Reading: Module 2 Glossary
Reading: Qwiklabs Introduction

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Creating/inspecting key pair, encrypting/decrypting and sign/verify using OpenSSL
Graded: Hands-on with Hashing

Week 3
AAA Security (Not Roadside Assistance)
In the third week of this course, we'll learn about the "three A's" in cybersecurity. No matter what type of tech role you're in, it's important to understand how authentication, authorization, and accounting work within an organization. By the end of this module, you'll be able to choose the most appropriate method of authentication, authorization, and level of access granted for users in an organization.

13 videos, 5 readings, 2 practice quizzes
Video: Best practices for authentication
Video: Multifactor Authentication
Reading: Physical Privacy and Security Components
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Authentication
Video: Certificates
Video: RADIUS
Video: Kerberos
Video: TACACS+
Video: Single Sign-On
Practice Quiz: Authentication
Video: Rob: My path to IT
Video: Authorization and Access Control Methods
Reading: Mobile Security Methods
Video: Access Control
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Authorization
Video: Access Control List
Video: Tracking Usage and Access
Practice Quiz: Authorization and Accounting
Video: Rob: Important skills in security
Reading: Module 3 Glossary

Show lessweek 3 material
Graded: AAA Security (Not Roadside Assistance)

Week 4
Securing Your Networks
In the fourth week of this course, we'll learn about secure network architecture. It's important to know how to implement security measures on a network environment, so we'll show you some of the best practices to protect an organization's network. We'll learn about some of the risks of wireless networks and how to mitigate them. We'll also cover ways to monitor network traffic and read packet captures. By the end of this module, you'll understand how VPNs, proxies and reverse proxies work; why 802.1X is a super important for network protection; understand why WPA/WPA2 is better than WEP; and know how to use tcpdump to capture and analyze packets on a network. That's a lot of information, but well worth it for an IT Support Specialist to understand!

Show less
11 videos, 10 readings, 4 practice quizzes
Video: Network Hardening Best Practices
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Network Hardening Best Practices
Video: Network Hardware Hardening
Reading: Supplemental Reading on IEEE 802.1X
Video: Network Software Hardening
Reading: Supplementary reading on HAProxy, nginx and Apache HTTP server
Practice Quiz: Secure Network Architecture
Video: Joe: My personal obstacle
Video: WEP Encryption and Why You Shouldn't Use It
Reading: Supplementary reading for WEP Encryption and Why You Shouldn't Use It
Video: Let's Get Rid of WEP! WPA/WPA2
Reading: Supplementary reading on WiFi Protected Setup (WPS) PIN brute force vulnerability
Video: Wireless Hardening
Practice Quiz: Wireless Security
Video: Heather: The impact of social engineering
Video: Sniffing the Network
Video: Wireshark and tcpdump
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Promiscuous Mode
Video: Intrusion Detection/Prevention Systems
Reading: Supplemental reading for Intrusion Detection/Prevention System
Reading: Unified Threat Management (UTM)
Reading: Home Network Security
Reading: Module 4 Glossary
Practice Quiz: Network Monitoring
Practice Quiz: Securing Your Networks

Show lessweek 4 material
Graded: Introduction to tcpdump

Week 5
Defense in Depth
In the fifth week of this course, we're going to go more in-depth into security defense. We'll cover ways to implement methods for system hardening, application hardening, and determine the policies for OS security. By the end of this module, you'll know why it's important to disable unnecessary components of a system, learn about host-based firewalls, setup anti-malware protection, implement disk encryption, and configure software patch management and application policies.

Show less
9 videos, 6 readings, 2 practice quizzes
Video: Intro to Defense in Depth
Video: Disabling Unnecessary Components
Video: Host-Based Firewall
Video: Logging and Auditing
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Logging and Auditing
Reading: Windows Defender Guide
Video: Antimalware Protection
Reading: Supplemental Readings for Antimalware Protection
Video: Disk Encryption
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Disk Encryption
Practice Quiz: System Hardening
Video: Heather: Self-learning is the key to success
Video: Software Patch Management
Reading: Browser Hardening
Video: Application Policies
Reading: Module 5 Glossary
Practice Quiz: Application Hardening

Show lessweek 5 material
Graded: Defense in Depth

Week 6
Creating a Company Culture for Security
Congratulations, you've made it to the final week in the course! In the last week of this course, we'll explore ways to create a company culture for security. It's important for any tech role to determine appropriate measures to meet the three goals of security. By the end of this module, you will develop a security plan for an organization to demonstrate the skills you've learned in this course. You're almost done, keep up the great work!

16 videos, 14 readings, 4 practice quizzes
Video: Security Goals
Video: Measuring and Assessing Risk
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Risk in the Workplace
Video: Privacy Policy
Practice Quiz: Risk in the Workplace
Reading: Data Destruction
Video: User Habits
Reading: Supplemental Reading for User Habits
Video: Third-Party Security
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Vendor Security Assessment Questionnaires
Video: Security Training
Discussion Prompt: Your Security Habits
Practice Quiz: Users
Video: Alex: Qualities of an IT candidate
Video: Incident Reporting and Analysis
Reading: Incident Response
Video: Incident Response and Recovery
Video: Mobile Security and Privacy
Reading: Supplemental Readings for Mobile Security and Privacy
Reading: Bring Your Own Device
Practice Quiz: Incident Handling
Video: Amir: Tips for interviews
Video: Ari: Tips for interviews
Video: Interview Role Play: Security
Reading: Invitation to Sign Up for Big Interview
Video: Final Assessment
Reading: Final Project - Sample Submission
Discussion Prompt: Browse the Job Platform
Video: Framing yourself
Reading: How to Add Google IT Support Certificate to Your Resume and LinkedIn Profile
Reading: Common Job Search Terms
Reading: Module 6 Glossary
Reading: Course 5 Glossary
Discussion Prompt: Your Learning Journey
Video: Congratulations!
Reading: Information and FAQs about badges
Practice Quiz: Your Access to Google Job Search Resources
Ungraded Plugin: Google IT Cert Participant Exit Survey

Show lessweek 6 material
Graded: Creating a Company Culture for Security
Graded: Creating a Company Culture for Security - Design Document

Week 7
Prepare for Jobs in IT Support
You will engage in a series of interactive activities based on concepts you’ve explored and skills you’ve gained throughout the program. You’ll also explore job readiness skills, develop your resume, and practice interviewing for jobs.
20 readings, 4 practice quizzes
Practice Quiz: Hands-on Activity: Adding Skills and Experience to your Resume
Reading: Tailoring your Resume for IT Support
Reading: Finding your Path and Perfect Role
Practice Quiz: Self Review - Build a Job Search Project Plan
Reading: Personal Branding
Reading: Recruiters, Headhunters and Staffing Agencies
Reading: Write a Cover Letter
Reading: Getting Started with LinkedIn
Reading: How to get Interviews
Reading: Learn More About Developing an Elevator Pitch
Reading: Ask the Interviewer Questions
Practice Quiz: Create Questions to Ask your Interviewer
Practice Quiz: Self-review: Practice Using the STAR Method to Answer Interview Questions
Reading: Prepare for Interviews with Interview Warmup
Reading: Before you Accept, Negotiating the Contract
Reading: Imposter Syndrome
Reading: Working from Home for the Win (WFH FTW)
Reading: Burnout
Reading: Create a Career Development Plan
Reading: Getting Promoted
Reading: Related Technical Careers
Reading: Social Emotional Skills
Reading: Diversity, Inclusion, and Bias
Reading: Advanced Communication Skills
