Supplemental Reading for Linux Package Dependencies

Linux Package Dependencies:
In this reading, you will review how to install and manage Debian packages in Linux using the dpkg command. 
This skill may be helpful to IT Support professionals that work with Linux systems like Debian or Ubuntu. 

The following is a list of terms used in this reading:
Debian: One of many free Linux operating systems (OSes), used as the foundation for other OSes, like Ubuntu. 
Linux packages: A compressed software archive file that contains the files needed for a software application. 
  These files can include binary executables, a software libraries, configuration files, package dependencies, command line utilities, 
  and/or application(s) with a graphical user interface (GUI). A Linux package can also be an OS update. Linux OS installations normally
  come with thousands of packages. Common Linux package types include: 
.deb - Debian packages
.rpm - Redhat packages
.tgz - TAR archive file 
Linux repository: Storage space on a remote server that hosts thousands of Linux packages. Repositories must be added to a Linux system in order
  for the system to search and download packages from the repository. 
Stand alone package: A package that does not require any dependencies. All files required to install and run the package on a Linux system are
  contained inside a single package.
Package dependency: A package that other Linux packages depend upon to function properly. Often, packages do not include the dependencies
  required to install the software they contain. Instead, package manifests list the external dependencies needed by the package. 
Package manager: A tool on Linux systems used for installing, managing, and removing Linux packages. Package managers can also read 
  package manifests to determine if any dependencies are needed. The package manager then finds and downloads the dependency packages before 
  installing the packaged software. Several common Linux Package Managers include:

For Debian and Debian-based systems, like Ubuntu:
dpkg - Debian Package Manager
APT - Advanced Package Tool, uses dpkg commands
aptitude - user-friendly package manager 

RedHat and RedHat-based systems, like CentOS: 
rpm - RedHat Package Manager
yum - Yellowdog Updater Modified, comes with RedHat
dnf - Dandified Yum

The dpkg command:
The Linux dpkg command is used to build, install, manage, and remove packages in Debian or Debian-based systems. 

Syntax:
The following are a few common dpkg command action parameters, with syntax and uses: 
To install a package: 
To update a package saved locally: 
To remove a package: 
To purge a package, which removes the package and all files belonging to the package: 
To get a list of packages installed: 
To get a list of all files belonging to or associated with a package: 
To list the contents of a new package: 

When an action parameter is added to the dpkg command, one of the following two commands are run in the background:
dpkg-deb: A back-end tool for manipulating .deb files. The dpkg-deb tool provides information about .deb files, and can pack and unpack 
  their contents.
dpkg-query: A back-end tool for querying .deb files for information.

Additional Debian package managers:
There are several alternate methods for managing Debian packages. Some have command-line interfaces (CLI) while others have GUIs.
The alternative options to dpkg include:
APT (Advanced Package Tool) - A powerful package manager designed to be a front-end for the dpkg command. APT installs and updates dependencies
  required for proper .deb package installation. 
Synaptic Package Manager – A popular GTK (GNU Image Manipulation Program ToolKit) widget with a GUI. Provides an array of package management
  features.
Ubuntu Software Center – A GTK GUI developed by Ubuntu and integrated into the Ubuntu OS.
aptitude – A user-friendly front-end for APT, with a menu-driven console and a CLI.
KPackage – A part of KDE (Kool Desktop Environment) used to install and load packages that do not contain binary content. Non-binary content 
  includes graphics and scripted extensions. 
