Responsive Web Design
In this Responsive Web Design Certification, you'll learn the languages that developers use to build webpages: HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) for content, and CSS 
(Cascading Style Sheets) for design.

First, you'll build a cat photo app to learn the basics of HTML and CSS. Later, you'll learn modern techniques like CSS variables by building a penguin, and best
practices for accessibility by building a quiz site.

Finally, you'll learn how to make webpages that respond to different screen sizes by building a photo gallery with Flexbox, and a magazine article layout with CSS Grid.

Note: Some browser extensions, such as ad-blockers and dark mode extensions can interfere with the tests. If you face issues, we recommend disabling extensions 
that modify the content or layout of pages, while taking the course.
Courses

Learn HTML by Building a Cat Photo App, Not started

Learn Basic CSS by Building a Cafe Menu, Not started

Learn CSS Colors by Building a Set of Colored Markers, Not started

Learn HTML Forms by Building a Registration Form, Not started
Certification Project
Survey FormCertification Project
This is one of the required projects to earn your certification.

For this project, you will build a survey form to collect data from your users.


Learn the CSS Box Model by Building a Rothko Painting, Not started

Learn CSS Flexbox by Building a Photo Gallery, Not started

Learn Typography by Building a Nutrition Label, Not started

Learn Accessibility by Building a Quiz, Not started
Certification Project
Tribute PageCertification Project
This is one of the required projects to earn your certification.

For this project, you will build a tribute page for a subject of your choosing, fictional or real.


Learn More About CSS Pseudo Selectors By Building A Balance Sheet, Not started

Learn Intermediate CSS by Building a Cat Painting, Not started

Learn Responsive Web Design by Building a Piano, Not started
Certification Project
Technical Documentation PageCertification Project
This is one of the required projects to earn your certification.

For this project, you will build a technical documentation page to serve as instruction or reference for a topic.


Learn CSS Variables by Building a City Skyline, Not started

Learn CSS Grid by Building a Magazine, Not started
Certification Project
Product Landing PageCertification Project
This is one of the required projects to earn your certification.

For this project, you will build a product landing page to market a product of your choice.


Learn CSS Animation by Building a Ferris Wheel, Not started

Learn CSS Transforms by Building a Penguin, Not started
Certification Project
Personal Portfolio WebpageCertification Project
This is one of the required projects to earn your certification.

For this project, you will build your own personal portfolio page.

