Syllabus
Week 1
What is System Administration?
Welcome to the System Administration course of the IT Support Professional Certificate! In the first week of this course, we will cover the basics of system administration. We'll cover organizational policies, IT infrastructure services, user and hardware provisioning, routine maintenance, troubleshooting, and managing potential issues. By the end of this module, you will understand the roles and responsibilities of a System Administrator. So let's get started!

16 videos, 10 readings, 1 practice quiz
Video: Course Introduction
Reading: Navigating Coursera
Reading: Program Surveys
Reading: How to Use Discussion Forums
Reading: Get to Know Your Classmates
Discussion Prompt: Meet and Greet
Video: What is Systems Administration?
Video: Servers Revisited
Reading: Supplemental Reading on KVM switch
Video: The Cloud
Video: Organizational Policies
Video: IT Infrastructure Services
Video: User and Hardware Provisioning
Video: Routine Maintenance
Video: Vendors
Reading: Vendor Life-Cycle for Custom Services and Products
Reading: Vendor Life-Cycle for Support of Commercial Products
Video: Troubleshooting and Managing Issues
Video: In Case of Fire, Break Glass
Practice Quiz: Systems Administration Tasks
Video: Dion: My Michelle Obama story
Video: With Great Power Comes Great Responsibility
Reading: Change Management
Reading: Recording Your Actions
Video: Never Test in Production
Video: Assessing Risk
Video: Fixing Things the Right Way
Reading: Module 1 Glossary

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: What is System Administration?
Week 2
Network and Infrastructure Services
In the second week of this course, we'll learn about network and infrastructure services. We will cover what IT infrastructure services are and what their role is in system administration. We'll also learn about server operating systems, virtualization, network services, DNS for web services, and how to troubleshoot network services. By the end of this module, you will know the most common IT infrastructure services you'll encounter when handling system administration tasks.

Show less
23 videos, 10 readings, 3 practice quizzes
Video: What are IT Infrastructure Services?
Video: The Role of IT Infrastructure Services in SysAdmin
Video: Types of IT Infrastructure Services
Reading: Supplemental Reading for IT Infrastructure Services
Practice Quiz: Intro to IT Infrastructure Services
Video: How do Qwiklabs Work?
Video: Heather: My first job in tech
Video: Server Operating Systems
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Server Operating Systems
Video: Virtualization
Video: Remote Access Revisited
Reading: Remote Connections
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Remote Access and SSH
Practice Quiz: Physical Infrastructure Services
Video: FTP, SFTP, and TFTP
Reading: Supplemental Reading for FTP Clients
Video: NTP
Video: Network Support Services Revisited
Video: DNS
Video: DNS for Web Servers
Video: DNS for Internal Networks
Reading: Supplemental Reading for BIND/PowerDNS
Video: DHCP
Reading: Supplemental Reading for DNS and DHCP
Practice Quiz: Network Services
Video: Unable to Resolve a Hostname or Domain Name
Video: What do Services Look Like in Action
Video: Managing Services in Linux
Video: Managing Services in Windows
Video: Configuring Services in Linux
Video: Configuring Services in Windows
Reading: Qwiklabs Introduction
LTI Item: [Optional] Qwiklabs Assessment: Managing Services in Linux
LTI Item: [Optional] Qwiklabs Assessment: Managing Services in Windows
Video: Configuring DNS with Dnsmasq
Video: Configuring DHCP with Dnsmasq
Reading: dnsmasq
Reading: Module 2 Glossary
LTI Item: [Optional] Qwiklabs assessment: Get Familiar with DNS and DHCP

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Network Services
Graded: Qwiklabs: Service Management in Linux
Graded: Qwiklabs: Service Management in Windows
Graded: Qwiklabs: Getting familiar with DNS and DHCP
Week 3
Software and Platform Services
In the third week of this course, we'll explore software and platform services. We'll cover what types of software and platform services you may encounter in a tech role and how to manage them. We'll learn how to configure email services, security services, file services, print services, and platform services. We'll explore ways to troubleshoot platform services and common issues to look out for. By the end of this module, you'll understand how to setup and manage the IT infrastructure services to help a business stay productive, keep information secure, and deliver applications to its users.

Show less
16 videos, 16 readings, 3 practice quizzes
Video: Module Introduction
Video: Communication Services
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Chat Communication Services
Video: Email Protocols
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Email Protocols
Reading: Spam Management/Mitigation
Video: User Productivity Services: Agreements and Licenses
Video: Web Server Security Protocols
Video: Heather: Managing self-doubt
Practice Quiz: Software Services
Video: What are file services?
Reading: Supplemental Reading for File Services
Video: Network File Storage
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Network File Storage
Video: Mobile Synchronization
Reading: Mobile Synchronization
Reading: Supplemental Readings for Mobile Synchronization
Video: Configuring Print Services
Reading: Print Services
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Print Services
Ungraded Plugin: Troubleshooting Printer Issues
Ungraded Plugin: Common Printer Types
Video: Web Servers Revisited
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Web Servers (Revisited)
Reading: Load Balancers
Video: What is a database server?
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Database Admin Jobs
Practice Quiz: File, Print, and Platform Services
LTI Item: [Optional] Qwiklabs Assessment: Manage Websites With Apache2
Video: Is the website down?
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Troubleshooting with Developer Tools
Practice Quiz: Troubleshooting Platform Services
Video: Cloud Concepts
Video: Typical Cloud Infrastructure Setups
Reading: Common Cloud Models
Video: When and How to Choose Cloud
Reading: Managing Cloud Resources
Reading: Module 3 Glossary

Show lessweek 3 material
Graded: Qwiklabs: Managing websites with Apache2
Graded: Software and Platform Services
Week 4
Directory Services
In the fourth week of this course, we'll learn about directory services. Specifically, we'll cover how two of the most popular directory services, Active Directory and OpenLDAP, work in action. We'll explore the concept of centralized management and how this can help SysAdmins maintain and support all the different parts of an IT infrastructure. By the end of this module, you will know how to add users, passwords, and use group policies in Active Directory and OpenLDAP.

19 videos, 13 readings, 3 practice quizzes
Video: Module Introduction
Video: What is a directory server?
Video: Implementing Directory Services
Practice Quiz: Introduction to Directory Services
LTI Item: [Optional] Qwiklabs Assessment: Utilizing Active Directory
Video: What is centralized management?
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Centralized Management
Video: What is LDAP?
Reading: Supplemental Reading for LDAP
Video: What is LDAP Authentication?
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Kerberos
Practice Quiz: Centralized Management and LDAP
Video: Heather: Overcoming obstacles
Video: What is Active Directory?
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Active Directory
Video: Managing Active Directory
Video: Managing Active Directory Users and Groups
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Group Security Principles
Video: Managing Active Directory User Passwords
Reading: Supplemental Reading for EFS Features
Video: Joining an Active Directory Domain
Reading: Supplemental Reading for DFL & FFL
Video: Group Policy: Group Policy Object (GPO)
Video: Group Policy Creation and Editing
Video: Group Policy Inheritance and Precedence
Video: Group Policy Troubleshooting
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Group Policy Troubleshooting
Reading: Supplement Reading for Group Policy Troubleshooting Examples
Video: Mobile Device Management (MDM)
Reading: Supplemental Readings for Mobile Device Management (MDM)
Practice Quiz: Active Directory
Video: What is OpenLDAP?
Reading: Supplemental Reading for OpenLDAP
Video: Managing OpenLDAP
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Managing OpenLDAP
Reading: Module 4 Glossary

Show lessweek 4 material
Graded: Qwiklabs: Using Active Directory
Graded: Directory Services
Week 5
Data Recovery & Backups
In the fifth week of this course, we'll learn about data recovery and backups. In any tech role, it's important to know how to backup and recover data -- it's even more important for system administration. We will also learn about common corporate practices like designing a disaster recovery plan and writing post-mortem documentation. By the end of this module, you'll know the tradeoffs between on-site and off-site backups, understand the value and importance of backup and recovery testing, know different options for data backup (as well as the risks) and understand the purpose and contents of a disaster recovery plan.

Show less
13 videos, 4 readings, 3 practice quizzes
Video: Module Introduction
Video: What is Data Recovery?
Reading: Supplemental Reading for GitLabs Data Recovery
Video: Backing Up Your Data
Video: Backup Solutions
Reading: Supplemental Reading for Backup Solutions
Video: Job transition
Video: Testing Backups
Video: Types of Backup
Reading: Supplemental Reading for RAID Levels
Video: User Backups
Discussion Prompt: Backing Up Your Data
Practice Quiz: Planning for Data Recovery
Video: What's a Disaster Recovery Plan?
Video: Designing a Disaster Recovery Plan
Practice Quiz: Disaster Recovery Plans
Video: What's a post-mortem?
Video: Writing a Post-Mortem
Practice Quiz: Post-Mortems
Video: Interview Role Play: Sys Admin
Reading: Module 5 Glossary

Show lessweek 5 material
Graded: Data Recovery & Backups
Week 6
Final Project
Congratulations, you've made it to the final week in the course! The last week of this course is dedicated to the final project. For the final project, you will apply all the skills you've learned in this course by providing systems administration consultation. You will assess the IT infrastructure of three fictitious (but very real-life based!) companies and provide recommendations and advice about how to support their IT infrastructure. By the end of this project, you will demonstrate the skills and problem-solving techniques of a SysAdmin. Good luck!

Show less
3 videos, 1 reading
Video: Final Project Introduction
Video: Alex: How passion turned into success
Reading: Course 4 Glossary
Discussion Prompt: Your Learning Journey
Video: Congratulations!

Show lessweek 6 material
Graded: System Administration Consultation
