Activity Overview

In this activity, you will apply your knowledge of power and influence to write emails to selected stakeholders asking them to be part of your coalition during project negotiations. Remember, a coalition is a temporary alliance or partnering of individuals or groups in order to achieve a common purpose or to engage in a joint activity. 

At the end of this activity, you should have written two influential emails. Once submitted, your peers will review your completed emails and provide feedback.

Scenario
less 
Scenario
Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.


Omar, the owner of Sauce & Spoon, has requested that Peta expand the tablet rollout to include all dining sections, not just the bar. Deanna expects Peta to do what she can to accommodate an expansion, but Peta feels it is outside the scope of the project. However, because Omar is the owner and a senior stakeholder, Peta decides to get input from other team members. She hopes to identify at least two team members who will support her position on keeping the rollout confined to the bar area. Peta meets with Gilly, Alex, Larissa, Zane, Seydou, and Carter to discuss the pros and cons of expanding the tablet rollout. 

Step-By-Step Assignment Instructions
less 
Step-By-Step Instructions

Follow the instructions below to download and complete this activity.

Step 1: Access the template

To use the template for this course item, click the link below and select “Use Template.” 


Link to template: Email Coalition

OR 

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


Step 2: Access the supporting materials

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity. Keep them open as you proceed to the next steps. Each link will open a new Coursera tab.

Email Exchange: Stakeholder Intro

Meeting: Identify Mutual Benefits

Note: To access supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section.

Step 3: Review the supporting materials

Review the email exchange and meeting transcript.  Make note of the following details:

Each person’s involvement with the project 

Their stated position on the expansion

Any mutual benefits that could result from keeping the tablet rollout confined to the bar area (remember, a mutual benefit is when all parties involved gain some kind of value or advantage)

You are also encouraged to make note of any other relevant project information. You may add this information to your notes or the project charter.

Step 4: Identify two people to join your coalition

Based on your notes, identify two potential allies to support you in pushing back against the expansion. You can choose from among the following stakeholders: 

Gilly

Alex

Larissa

Zane

Seydou

Carter 

When choosing potential supporters, consider how much power and influence they have (it may be helpful to refer to your stakeholder analysis and power grid). Your coalition must have enough power and influence to help you convince two senior stakeholders—Deanna, the Director of Operations, and Omar, the owner of Sauce & Spoon—that expanding the rollout is not a good idea.

Step 5: Write an email to each potential supporter

After identifying two potential supporters, write a separate email to each one asking them to join your coalition. Make sure that each email has a subject line, greeting and introduction, body, conclusion, and closing.

Each email should also Include the following:

A short summary of Omar’s request to expand the rollout

At least two reasons why expanding the rollout may be unwise 

A request to help you convince Omar and Deanna to stick with the original plan and limit the rollout to the bar area

Step 6: Apply Conger’s four steps of effective influencing

As you compose your email, remember to apply Conger’s steps to influence others effectively: 

Establish credibility

Frame for common ground

Provide evidence

Connect emotionally

When planning your influencing approach for each email, consider your audience, their involvement in the project, and their thoughts on the expansion. Think about how an expanded test launch might affect them, as well as any mutual benefits that could affect them.

Review criteria
less 
There are a total of 12 points for this activity. At least two of your peers will evaluate your email. Your final grade will be the median of these scores. You must get 10 out of 12 total points to pass.

Giving Good Feedback
less 
Once you complete the activity, review and provide constructive feedback for at least two classmates. Below are some guidelines to help you leave constructive comments for your peers. 

When giving feedback, consider:

Leading with positive feedback

Providing a balance of positive and actionable feedback

Sticking to information-specific, issue-focused, and observation-centered comments

Ready to submit your work? Head to the My Submission tab at the top of the page.
