Refer to Organizational Chart/Bios/Email
To pass this practice quiz, you must receive at least 80%, or 8 out of 10 points, by completing the activity and answering corresponding quiz questions. You can learn more about the graded and practice items in the Course Overview.

Activity Overview
In this activity, you will  practice assessing and prioritizing stakeholders. As a project manager, understanding your stakeholders helps you figure out the right people to include in important conversations and how to prioritize the needs of different stakeholders. This is key to getting the support you need throughout the project. 

You will learn more about the project’s potential stakeholders by reviewing supporting materials. Based on what you learn, you will compile a stakeholder analysis evaluating each stakeholder’s level of power and interest. Then you will add those stakeholders to a power-interest grid, so you know how to prioritize them.

Scenario

Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

Now that Peta has completed the Sauce & Spoon project charter draft, she needs to evaluate the project’s stakeholders so she has a better idea of how to interact with each one as the project progresses. Each stakeholder has their own unique interests and involvement with the project, so it's important to determine the best ways to manage them, approach negotiations, and keep them informed of the project’s progress.

Step-By-Step Instructions

Step 1: Access the template

To use the template for this course item, click the link below and select “Use Template.” 


Link to template: Stakeholder Analysis

OR

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


Step 2: Access the supporting materials

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity. Keep them open as you proceed to the next steps. Each link will open a new Coursera tab.

Sauce & Spoon Organizational Chart

Email: Checking In

Note: To review supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section.

Step 3: Review the supporting materials

As you review the supporting materials, take some notes, keeping in mind the following Guiding Questions:

How much power does each stakeholder have? A stakeholder’s power is related to how much influence they have and how much their actions affect the project outcome.

How much interest does each stakeholder have? Interest refers to how much the stakeholder’s needs will be affected by the project’s operations and outcomes. 

You are encouraged to also make note of any other relevant project information. You may add this information to your notes or the project charter.

Step 4: Complete the stakeholder analysis

In the stakeholder analysis template, add content to the first slide based on what you’ve learned from the supporting materials, including:

Stakeholder: What is their name?

Role: What is their role?

Power (H/M/L): Is their power over the project high, medium, or low?

Interest (H/M/L): Is their interest in the project high, medium, or low?

For example, a stakeholder who has a lot of power over the project could have a number of other responsibilities as well. In that case, they may not have as much direct interest, since their attention is split among many different projects. They would be considered high power and low interest.

On the other hand, a stakeholder who will be directly impacted by the decisions of the project (for example, their budget or staffing allocations could change), but who doesn’t have any authority to influence the decisions would be considered low power and high interest.

If you’re not sure about a stakeholder’s level, or if their power or interest falls somewhere in the middle, you can assign them a medium rating.

Step 5: Complete the power-interest grid

Take your assessment from the stakeholder analysis, and add content to the power-interest grid, according to each level of power and interest you assigned them (high, medium, or low). Assign each stakeholder to a box. If  you rated a stakeholder’s power or interest as medium, place them between the grid boxes.

Someone's position on the grid shows you the actions you have to take with them:

Higher power, higher interest: These people are your highest priority. You must manage them closely and make every effort to fully engage with them.

Higher power, lower interest: These people require a high level of effort to keep satisfied, as far as the success of the project is concerned, but do not want to be overburdened with project communications.

Lower power, higher interest: Show consideration to these people by keeping them adequately informed. Talk to them to ensure that no major issues are arising. These people can often be very helpful with the details of your project.

Lower power, lower interest: Monitor these people, but do not overload them with excessive communication. These people require minimal effort.

Once the grid is complete, you will have a better sense of how to manage and communicate with each stakeholder: keep satisfied, manage closely, monitor, or show consideration.

Step 6: Save your work 

Be sure to save the stakeholder analysis you drafted for this activity. You will revise and refine project artifacts as you progress through the course. 

Pro Tip: Save the template
Finally, be sure to save a blank copy of the template you used to complete this activity. You can use it for further practice or in your own personal or professional projects. These templates will be useful as you put together a portfolio of project management artifacts. You can use them to work through your thought processes as you demonstrate your experience to potential employers.
