Question 1
To pass this practice quiz, you must receive at least 80%, or 4 out of 5 points, by completing the activity and answering corresponding quiz questions. You can learn more about the graded and practice items in the Course Overview.

Activity Overview
In this activity, you will identify project tasks by reviewing project and company documents. Then you will draft the project plan for Sauce & Spoon’s tabletop menu tablets project.

Scenario

Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

Peta, the new in-house project manager for Sauce & Spoon restaurants, has finished drafting the project charter for their tabletop menu tablets project. Her next step is to identify tasks to include in a project plan that will help her team reach the project’s goals. 

To identify project tasks, Peta spends some time reviewing project documentation for the current tablet project. She also examines the project plan from a completed Sauce & Spoon project for information that could help the team complete the tablet rollout.

Step-By-Step Instructions

Step 1: Access the template

Click the link to create a copy of the template. If you don’t have a Google account, download the template directly from the attachment below.


Link to template: Project Plan Template

OR

Download template:


Step 2: Access the supporting materials

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity. Keep them open as you proceed to the next steps. Each link will open a new Coursera tab.

Project Charter: Review your completed project charter from Week 1 

Historical Project Plan

Email Exchange: Tablet Logistics

Note: To review supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section.

Step 3: Make a list of 10 tasks

Review the project charter, historical project plan, and email exchange and identify 10 tasks that might be required for the tablet rollout project. Identify at least one task from each supporting document. Remember that project tasks refer to activities that need to be accomplished within a set period of time, which eventually lead to the completion of a milestone. 

Then, add the tasks to the Task Brainstorm tab of your project plan in the Task column.

As you add your tasks, ask yourself the following Guiding Tips and Questions:

Are there multiple tasks implied by a single sentence? For example, "Launch a reservation system" implies that the team selected, installed, tested, and then launched the reservation system.

Always ask yourself what decisions might need to be made before an action is taken and what testing might need to be done to verify the success of that action. These decisions and tests might also be considered tasks for the project plan.

Step 4: Save your work 

Be sure to save the project plan you updated for this activity. You will revise and refine project artifacts, including the project plan, as you progress through the course. 

Pro Tip: Save the template
Finally, be sure to save the template you used to complete this activity for further practice or to use in your own personal or professional projects. These templates will be useful as you put together a portfolio of project management artifacts that you can speak to in an interview to demonstrate your experience to potential employers. 

What to Include in Your Response
Be sure to include the following elements in your project plan:

At least 10 project tasks from the supporting materials (including at least one task from each supporting document)
