1.
Question 1
To pass this practice quiz, you must receive at least 80%, or 4 out of 5 points, by completing the activity and answering corresponding quiz questions. You can learn more about the graded and practice items in the Course Overview.

Activity Overview
In this activity, you will assess the time estimates in your project plan and add confidence ratings based on notes from a project team meeting.

Scenario

Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

By now, Peta has added a number of tasks to the project plan and assigned them time estimates. Now Peta wants to get a sense of how confident the team is that those time estimates are accurate. This information will allow her to update the timeline for completion and be fully prepared to launch the project.

Step-By-Step Instructions

Step 1: Access your draft

Begin by opening the project plan draft you worked on in the last activity, Get accurate time estimates.

Step 2: Access supporting materials

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity. Keep them open as you proceed to the next steps. Each link below will open a new Coursera tab.

Meeting: Project Update

For this activity, you may also want to access the following supporting materials from earlier activities:

Historical Project Plan

Email Exchange: Tablet Logistics

Meeting: Tablet Training

Meeting: Waterfront Location

Meeting: North Location

Meeting: Tablet Shipping Estimate

Meeting: Menu and Coupons

Meeting: Scheduling Software Installation

Note: To access additional supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section.

Step 3: Review the supporting materials 

Review the notes from the project team meeting. As you review, take notes on the feedback Peta asks for on certain tasks, keeping in mind you will be responsible for updating confidence ratings in the project plan. Make note of details related to best-case and worst-case scenarios, and how confident the team is with the task estimates discussed at the meeting. 

If you identify any new tasks from this meeting that were not already included in your project plan, you can add them to the Task column under the Task Brainstorm tab of your project plan.

Step 4: Add three-point time estimates

Next, select at least four tasks and add three-point estimates for each task. Use the supporting materials provided in this and previous activities to determine an Optimistic time estimate, a Most Likely time estimate, and a Pessimistic time estimate for the task. Add these estimates to the corresponding columns under the Task Brainstorm tab in the project plan.

Step 5: Add confidence ratings

Next, add confidence ratings to at least four of your tasks in the Confidence Ratings (H/M/L) column under the Task Brainstorm tab.

Step 6: Add notes

Finally, add notes to at least four tasks. Notes can include any information on a task critical to time estimates or its completion. You can pull them from the project team meeting notes or any previous supporting materials.

What to Include in Your Response

Be sure to address the following criteria in your project plan:

Three-point time estimates for at least four tasks in the project plan

Confidence ratings for at least four tasks in the project plan

Notes for at least four tasks in the project plan
