1.
Question 1
To pass this practice quiz, you must receive at least 80%, or 4.8 out of 6 points, by completing the activity and answering corresponding quiz questions. You can learn more about the graded and practice items in the Course Overview.

Activity Overview
In this activity, you will identify time estimates and add them to your project plan. To do this, you will review Peta’s conversation from the last activity, Part 1: Identify time estimates for your project plan, and two additional conversations about time estimates. 

Scenario

Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

Once Peta ordered project tasks and identified milestones, she called Seydou to determine how long certain project tasks should take. The next step is to check in with Deanna and follow up with Seydou to clarify some of her estimates. She also reviews some project documentation, like emails and the historical project plan, to gather more task time estimates. 

Step-By-Step Instructions

Step 1: Access your draft

Begin by opening the project plan draft you worked on in the last activity, Order tasks and milestones.

Step 2: Access the supporting materials

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity. Keep them open as you proceed to the next steps. Each link will open a new Coursera tab.

Meeting: Tablet Shipping Estimate (from the last activity, Part 1: Add time estimates to your project plan) 

Meeting: Menu and Coupons

Meeting: Scheduling Software Installation

Step 3: Determine time estimates from the conversations

Review the conversation transcripts and determine likely time estimates that the tasks being discussed will take. Will it take a few days? A week? Add your time estimates under the Estimated Duration column on the Task Brainstorm tab of your project plan. If you’ve identified a task from one of these conversations that was not already included in your project plan, you can add the new task and the time estimate to the Task Brainstorm tab.

Step 4: Add time estimates for other tasks in the project plan

Review past project documentation and supporting materials. Then add time estimates for 5-10 additional tasks to the project plan.

What to Include in Your Response

Be sure to include the following elements in your project plan:

Time estimates for the new tasks referenced in the conversation transcripts (there are at least six tasks discussed in the supporting materials)

Time estimates for 5-10 previously listed tasks
