Activity Overview

In this activity, you will apply what you have learned about assessing the tasks in your project plan, ordering them, and identifying milestones. At the end of this activity, you will have a partially completed project plan. 

Once submitted, your peers will review your work and provide feedback.

Scenario
less 
Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.


Now that Peta has identified all the tasks associated with the tablet project, the next step is to organize those tasks and determine milestones. A milestone is an important point within the project schedule that indicates progress. It usually signifies the completion of a deliverable or phase of the project.

Step-By-Step Assignment Instructions
less 
Step 1: Access your draft

Begin by opening the project plan draft you worked on in the last activity, Identify Project Tasks: Analyze Key Conversations.

Step 2: Group related tasks 

Under the Task Brainstorm tab in your project plan draft, update the Task column by grouping tasks that are related to each other. For example, researching tablet features, comparing tablet pricing, and confirming compatible operating systems are all tasks related to choosing a tablet vendor. 

In addition, pay attention to dependencies, arranging tasks in the order they need to be completed. For example, if one of your tasks is training waitstaff how to use the tablets, a dependency might be scheduling a staff meeting first to introduce the concept of the tablets to the staff. In this case, you would want to order the staff meeting first, then the waitstaff training.

As you group and order the tasks, consider the following Guiding Questions:

Which tasks are related to achieving the same deliverable or goal?

What is the natural sequence of tasks?

Are there any dependencies or prerequisites?

You should already have 8-12 tasks in your list from previous activities. If you have fewer than eight tasks, review the supporting materials for this course and identify more tasks.

Note: If you need assistance reformatting your spreadsheet, visit the Google Sheets Help Center or Excel Help & Learning for more guidance.

Step 3: Identify milestones

Next, identify the project’s milestones. Remember, a milestone is an important point within the project schedule that indicates progress and usually signifies the completion of a deliverable or phase of the project.

As you identify your milestones, consider the following Guiding Questions:

Are there points in the project plan where you and your team can evaluate the work completed so far?

Can you identify important tasks that your stakeholders have a particular interest in?

Can you identify tasks that carry a high risk or signal the completion of a phase or major accomplishment?

For example, a single task might be “Integrate tablets with POS software.” Completing this task could signal the completion of a phase if it requires testing and carries high risk. In this case, the task would also qualify as a milestone. 

Or, you may have several related tasks, for example, around training. These could include: manager training, waitstaff training, training schedule, and having the devices available for training. In this case, you might identify “Complete training” as a milestone. Similarly, there may be a number of tasks around having the tablets installed in the restaurants, so “Complete tablet installation” could be another milestone.

Step 4: Add milestones

Finally, add at least three milestones to your list. If you have fewer than three milestones, review your task list and the supporting materials for this course and identify more milestones.

If a milestone relates to a single task, then update the task to read Milestone: [Name of task]. 

If you are creating a milestone that relates to a group of tasks, insert a row above the tasks and label the row Milestone: [Name of milestone].

Note: If you need assistance reformatting your spreadsheet, visit the Google Sheets Help Center or Excel Help & Learning for more guidance.

