Activity Overview

In this activity, you will continue to refine the project plan using information from a conversation. You will also finalize your task list. 

Keep in mind, a project plan can be useful for any project, big or small, since it helps you document the scope, tasks, milestones, and overall activities of the project. At the center of the project plan is the project schedule. Most projects capture requirements in an artifact similar to this, so the project plan you build for Sauce & Spoon will be a critical part of showcasing your project management understanding. It will demonstrate your ability to break a large project into a set of achievable, smaller tasks. 

Once submitted, your peers will review your work identifying time estimates for each project task and provide feedback.

Scenario
less 
Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.


Seydou calls Peta to follow up on the shipping and delivery estimates for the tablets. There’s an update that could impact the scheduled time estimates, so the project plan needs to be adjusted. 

Step-By-Step Assignment Instructions
less 
Step 1: Access your draft

Begin by opening the project plan draft you worked on in the last activity, Add Confidence Ratings.

Step 2: Access the supporting materials

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity. Keep them open as you proceed to the next steps. Each link will open a new Coursera tab.

Meeting: Tablet Shipment Updates

Note: To review supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section. 

Step 3: Update time estimates

Review the phone conversation and make note of the final results of updated time estimates.

Then, under the Task Brainstorm tab in your project plan, update your time estimates based on the new information in the transcript. Add any notes on tasks that may be impacted by the new time estimates in the Notes column.

Step 4: Finalize tasks and update the project plan

Copy your task list from the Task Brainstorm tab and paste it to the Tasks and Timeline tab to create a finalized task list in your project plan. You should have at least 20 tasks. 

Be sure to keep tasks ordered, and highlight the milestones you’ve identified in the Task column. Add your time estimate for each task in the Duration column, and any notes you may have in the Notes column. 

Note: You can leave the Start/Due Date, Task Owner, and Status columns empty or fill them out with your own estimations. (For more information on creating a timeline for your project plan, review the course Project Planning: Putting It All Together).

Review criteria
less 
There are a total of 11 points for this activity. At least two of your peers will evaluate your project plan. Your final grade will be the median of these scores. You must get 9 out of 11 total points to pass.

Giving Good Feedback
less 
Once you complete the activity, review and provide constructive feedback for at least two classmates. Below are some guidelines to help you leave constructive comments for your peers.

When giving feedback, consider:

Leading with positive feedback

Providing a balance of positive and actionable feedback

Sticking to information-specific, issue-focused, and observation-centered comments
