Activity Overview

In this activity, you will prepare a six-slide presentation based on the results of the customer satisfaction survey you created in the last activity. This information will help you measure the success of the tablet test launch. Your presentation should tell the story of the test launch to high-level stakeholders.

At the end of this activity, you should have a completed presentation. Once submitted, your peers will review your presentation and provide feedback.

Scenario
less 
Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.


The test launch is complete and the team has compiled the survey results. Peta’s next task is to identify key data points from the survey responses and prepare a presentation. Her presentation should tell the story of the test launch, including what worked, what didn’t, and recommendations for next steps. She will present her findings to Omar, the CEO, Deanna, the Director of Operations, and several potential investors for the next tablet rollout project at the remaining Sauce & Spoon locations.

Step-By-Step Assignment Instructions
less 
Step 1: Access the template

To use the template for this course item, click the link below and select “Use Template.” 


Link to template: Presentation: Test Launch Findings

OR

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


Step 2: Access supporting materials

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity. Keep them open as you proceed to the next steps. Each link will open a new Coursera tab.

Test Launch Customer Survey Results

Note: To review supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section.

Step 3: Review the supporting materials

The survey results include the questions and responses to a 15-question survey that 50 of Sauce & Spoon’s friends and family members completed on their tablets at the end of the test launch event. 

As you review the survey results, take notes on the following:

Identify responses that meet the goals and quality standards you set during the planning phase. 

Identify responses that show that there’s still room for improvement. 

Pick one data point that helps illustrate and support the point you want to make in your presentation. For example, if you’d like to demonstrate that a majority of customers were satisfied with the test launch experience, you might use survey data that shows a majority of customers had a positive response to their dining experience.

Step 4: Create your presentation slides

Create your presentation following the guidelines below. Remember that this presentation is for high level stakeholders and potential investors, so be sure to tailor your presentation for the right audience. 

Slide 1: Title your presentation

Slide 2: Summarize the milestone you reached—the tablet test launch—and how you achieved it

Slide 3: Give an overview of what the project team wanted to measure. This should be based on the evaluation questions and indicators.

Slide 4: Include one data point from the survey. This should be in the form of a chart or graph, or by comparing numbers. Note: If you’d like some help on building charts in Google Docs or Sheets, review this support article. 

Slide 5: Describe one recommendation for improvements or next steps in the tablet rollout.

Slide 6: Describe a second recommendation for improvements or next steps in the tablet rollout.

Review criteria
less 
There are a total of 13 points for this activity. At least two of your peers will evaluate your presentation. Your final grade will be the median of these scores. You must get 11 out of 13 total points to pass.
