Activity Overview
In this activity, you will review project documents in order to identify successes and areas for improvement relating to project milestones. You will then create a retrospective document that records this information.

Scenario

Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

The project team has completed two important milestones: installing the tablets and training the staff. Part of the training milestone included a test launch to make sure the tablets worked properly and to let the staff practice their training. Now that the test launch is over, Peta reviews the customer survey data and holds a retrospective review with the project team. They discuss what has gone well so far and identify areas for improvement going forward. 

Step-By-Step Instructions

Step 1: Access the template

To use the template for this course item, click the link below and select “Use Template.” 


Link to template: Retrospective Review

OR

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


Step 2: Access supporting materials

Review the supporting materials for this activity in the Resources section. Each link below will open a new Coursera tab.

Test Launch Customer Survey Results

Meeting: Retrospective

Note: To review supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section.

Step 3: Review supporting materials and add notes to the retrospective document

Review the customer survey results and identify three aspects of the test launch process that went well for guests, and three aspects that need improvement. For example, “40% of guests rated their experience as a 4 out of 5,” could be considered something that went well.

Add the items you identified to your Retrospective Document. Go to  the template and follow the instructions below:

In the Feedback From column of your Retrospective Document, use the dropdown to select Customers. 

In the Type column, select either Went well or Needs improvement according to the type of feedback you want to add. 

In the Description column, add a description of the aspect that went well or needs improvement. 

In the Evidence column, add the supporting evidence such as a quote from a customer or a data point from the survey. 

Finally, in the Actions column, add the action or actions you would suggest the company or project team take to address each aspect you identify.

Step 4: Add more notes to the retrospective document

Review the retrospective meeting transcript and identify three aspects of the tablet test launch that went well for the project team, and three aspects that need improvement. 

Add the aspects you identified to your Retrospective Document. Go to your template and follow the instructions below:

In the Feedback From column of your Retrospective Document, use the dropdown to select Project team. 

In the Type column, select either Went well or Needs improvement according to the type of feedback you want to add. 

In the Description column, add a description of the aspect that went well or needs improvement. 

In the Evidence column, add the supporting evidence such as a quote from a customer or a data point from the survey. 

Finally, in the Actions column, add the action or actions you would suggest the company or project team take to address each aspect you identify.

What to Include in Your Response

Be sure to include the following elements in your retrospective review:

Three items that went well, according to the customer survey

Three items that need improvement, according to the customer survey

Three items that went well, according to the retrospective review

Three items that need improvement, according to the retrospective review
