Activity Overview

In this activity, you will create 8-15 survey questions that will help you gather customer feedback to measure the success of the tablet test launch.

Once submitted, your peers will review your work and provide feedback.

Scenario
less 
Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.


Peta has created evaluation questions and indicators to measure customer satisfaction during the test launch. Now, she is using them to create a customer feedback survey. 50 people have signed up to participate in the test launch. Guests will be asked to engage with the newly implemented tablets, as if it were a typical dining experience, and complete a digital survey at the end of their service.

Step-By-Step Assignment Instructions
less 
Step 1: Access your draft

Begin by opening the project plan draft you worked on in the last activity, Create evaluation questions and indicators.

Step 2: Update the project plan

In your project plan, click on the Quality and Evaluation tab. 

Copy the content from the following columns: Quality Standards Criteria/Description, Evaluation Questions, and Evaluation Indicators. 

Now, click on the Survey Questions tab.

Paste the content you just copied into the corresponding columns. 

Note: If you need assistance reformatting your spreadsheet, visit the Google Sheets Help Center or Excel Help & Learning for more guidance.

Step 3: Draft survey questions

The quality standards, evaluation questions, and evaluation indicators you documented in your project plan can help you create your customer survey questions. Remember that your audience is Sauce & Spoon guests.

Begin drafting 8-15 survey questions in the Survey Question column. You should use a variety of open-ended and closed-ended question types.

For example, you could ask about:

Whether the guests have visited Sauce & Spoon in the past

Whether guests used tablets during their visit, and what their overall experience was like

Guest experience with the tablets, including functionality, navigation, technical issues, etc.

The length of guest wait time, the time they spent at the tables, and any other timelines that you might want to know about

The accuracy of their food orders

Any other interactions with the tablets you think might yield insightful data

Any other feedback the guests can provide about their experience

Step 4: Revise your survey questions

Once you’ve drafted your questions, think through how to make them specific and measurable—without providing so much detail that it might influence the answer. 

For example, a survey question that needs improvement might be, “Did your dinner take less time than the last time you visited?” The answer would not provide any measurable feedback because it would be based on the visitor’s judgement alone. It also relies on their having visited before.

A better survey question would be, “How long did your dinner take tonight?” Then you could provide a selection of time frames for the guest to pick from, or have them enter a time in a text box. This gives you measurable data you can work with.

If you think you need more review before writing your survey questions, you can return to the previous video and readings. Then, go back to your questions and rewrite them as needed.

Step 5: Finalize your survey questions

Now that you have a set of questions you want to ask in your customer feedback survey, make sure they are structured effectively. Go to the Question Type column in the Survey Questions sheet and list the question type for each question you’ve created. 

Include at least one of each question type below:

Yes or no questions (Y/N)

True or false questions (T/F)

Scaled questions, which ask respondents to rate their responses on a set scale (For example: “On a scale of 1-5, 1 being needs improvement and 5 being excellent, how would you rate your overall experience?”)

Multiple choice questions (MC)

Open-ended questions

Step 6: Add answer options

Add answer options in the columns under Question Answer Options according to the format of the questions you chose. For example, you might list the answers for a scaled question like this:

1: Very Satisfied

2: Somewhat satisfied

3: Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied

4: Somewhat dissatisfied

5: Very dissatisfied

Note: For open-ended survey questions, write “open-ended” under Option #1.

Step 7: Review, refine, and finalize your survey

Now review your survey questions, question types, and answer options. Ask yourself if you need to refine any questions to collect measurable data. You should also consider whether any questions would produce better responses if asked in a different format. Make sure your questions include at least one of each of the five question types from Step 4. 
