Activity Overview
In this activity, you will complete a closeout report summarizing the Sauce & Spoon menu tablet rollout project.

Scenario

Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

The Sauce & Spoon tablet rollout is now complete! Peta is finalizing the project by creating a closeout report that details the project’s goals, the approach for carrying out the project, and its key accomplishments. Completing the project closeout report is especially important because Sauce & Spoon has just hired a second project manager, Molly Edwards, to help Peta oversee the tablet rollout at the remaining restaurant locations. Molly will reference Peta’s closeout report as she onboards and begins planning her own projects.

Step-By-Step Instructions

Step 1: Access the template

To use the template for this course item, click the link below and select “Use Template.” 


Link to template: Closeout Report

OR

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


Step 2: Access the supporting materials

The following supporting materials will help you complete this activity. Keep them open as you proceed to the next steps. Review the supporting materials for this activity in the Resources section. Each link below will open a new Coursera tab.

Test Launch Customer Survey Results

Post Project Launch Check-in

Note: To review supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section.

Step 3: Review the supporting materials

Review the supporting materials for this activity. First, review the customer survey results from the test launch so you have a sense of the overall customer experience. Then review the email exchange that details the results of the rollout. You will use the information from these materials to create the closeout report.

Step 4: Add the project summary and methodology to the closeout report

Use the information from the email exchange, the customer survey results, and other project documentation to fill out the project summary and methodology sections of the closeout report. 

For the project summary, briefly describe the project and explain the desired results, including some of the key success criteria.

For the methodology, briefly describe the project management approaches and/or processes used during this project. For example, were any traditional or agile processes used? If so, during which parts of the project were these approaches applied? 

Step 5: Add key accomplishments, lessons learned, and next steps to the closeout report

Use the information from the email exchange, the customer survey results, and other documentation to fill out the key accomplishments, lessons learned and next steps sections of the closeout report

For key accomplishments, address the following:

Did the project achieve the initial goals?

Were problems solved and eliminated? 

Does the final project deliverable meet or beat requirements? 

For lessons learned, address the following:

What were things that went well and things that didn't go well, across the different parts of the project?

Were there unforeseen benefits or consequences?

What processes did not work well? Why?

Were there any key problems and what were the effects?

For next steps, address the following:

Is there any ongoing maintenance or development? 

Are there any open action items for post-project close? 

Are there any risks that could become issues if not addressed in the next quarter, etc.? 

Who will own the project going forward? Do you have any recommendations for future project managers

Step 6: Link relevant documents to the project documentation archive

Finally, link key project documentation that will be useful for future project managers or stakeholders to reference. The documents include the project proposal, project charter, project plan (located in the Resources section), and evaluation findings presentation. 

Pro Tip: Save the template
Finally, be sure to save the template you used to complete this activity for further practice or to use in your own personal or professional projects. These templates will be useful as you put together a portfolio of project management artifacts that you can speak to in an interview to demonstrate your experience to potential employers.

What to Include in Your Response

Be sure to include the following sections of your closeout report:

Project Summary section 

Methodology section 

Key Accomplishments section 

Lessons Learned section 

Next Steps section 

Project Documentation Archive section
