Activity Overview

In this activity, you will draft an executive summary for an impact report on Sauce & Spoon’s tablet rollout.

Once submitted, your peers will review your work and provide feedback.

Scenario
less 
Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.


Now that the tablet rollout has officially launched and the project has come to a close, Peta has begun working on the impact report. Her audience includes Omar, Deanna, and several potential Sauce & Spoon investors who may want to sponsor the next round of tablet rollouts at other locations. She uses the post-launch results about customer satisfaction and revenue growth to write an executive summary detailing key accomplishments, lessons learned, and next steps.

Step-By-Step Assignment Instructions
less 
Step 1: Access the template

To use the template for this course item, click the link below and select “Use Template.” 


Link to template: Impact Report

OR

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


Step 2: Review the impact report template

Review the data on slides 3-7 of the impact report template. Take notes, keeping in mind you will need to summarize the most important accomplishments, lessons learned, and next steps in your executive summary. In addition to the impact report slides, you can also draw on your experiences throughout the course to compose the summary.

Note: To review supporting materials introduced in earlier activities, you can find them in the Resources section.

Step 3: Write the executive summary

On the Executive Summary slide (slide 2), write a few sentences to a paragraph summarizing the purpose and outcome of the tablet project. Remember that your audience consists of senior stakeholders and potential investors for Sauce & Spoon’s next tablet rollout project, so the summary should provide a high-level overview. A “high-level” overview means providing a basic and general explanation without going into all the details. 

As you compose your executive summary, be sure to describe the following elements:

The project vision: What need did the project fulfill?

Two key accomplishments: What value did the project add? What activities, tasks, and milestones helped the project succeed? 

Two lessons learned: What could have been done differently?

Two next steps: What work remains now that the launch is complete?

Review criteria
less 
There are a total of 7 points for this activity. At least two of your peers will evaluate your project impact report. Your final grade will be the median of these scores. You must get 6 out of 7 total points to pass.

