Activity Overview

Congratulations on completing the Google Project Management Certificate! In this activity, you will complete a personal closing report to recap and reflect on your experience and your accomplishments.

Step-By-Step Instructions

Step 1: Access the template

Click the link to create a copy of the template. If you don’t have a Google account, download the template directly from the attachment below.


Link to the template: Personal Closing Report

OR

Download template:


Step 2: Add key accomplishments

Start by listing your key accomplishments. What challenges have you overcome throughout this process? For example, are there lessons or concepts you weren’t sure you’d understand, but were able to figure out? Perhaps you overcame challenges in your personal life, such as managing other work or family obligations while completing the course.

Step 3: Add lessons learned

Reflect on any lessons learned. For example, maybe you set a learning goal but realized the strategy you used wasn’t effective. Or, you might have learned that you enjoy certain types of tasks more than you thought you would.

Step 4: Add next steps and goals

Think about what steps you can take from here to advance your project management career. For example, you could update your resume with the new skills you’ve learned and this certificate. You could also create a job search plan and practice interviewing for project management roles.

Then, create a list of SMART goals to show how you plan to follow through on your next steps.

Step 5: Add an executive summary

Finally, add your own executive summary. For this report, the executive summary should be an overview of your experiences of the program. Describe your journey through the program as a whole. Make note of your successes and how you plan to advance your career in project management moving forward. 

What to Include in Your Response

Be sure to include the following elements in your personal closing report:

Key accomplishments

Lessons learned

Goals and next steps

Your goals

Your own executive summary
