Agile Project Management
by Google

About this Course
This is the fifth course in the Google Project Management Certificate program. This course will explore the history, approach, and philosophy of Agile project management, including the Scrum framework. You will learn how to differentiate and blend Agile and other project management approaches. As you progress through the course, you will learn more about Scrum, exploring its pillars and values and comparing essential Scrum team roles. You will discover how to build, manage, and refine a product backlog, implement Agile’s value-driven delivery strategies, and define a value roadmap. You will also learn strategies to effectively organize the five important Scrum events for a Scrum team, introduce an Agile or Scrum approach to an organization, and coach an Agile team. Finally, you will learn how to search for and land opportunities in Agile roles. Current Google project managers will continue to instruct and provide you with the hands-on approaches, tools, and resources to meet your goals.

Learners who complete this program should be equipped to apply for introductory-level jobs as project managers. No previous experience is necessary.

By the end of this course, you will be able to: 
 - Explain the Agile project management approach and philosophy, including values and principles.
 - Explain the pillars of Scrum and how they support Scrum values.
 - Identify and compare the essential roles in a Scrum team and what makes them effective.
 - Build and manage a Product Backlog and perform Backlog Refinement.
 - Describe the five important Scrum events and how to set up each event for a Scrum team.
 - Implement Agile’s value-driven delivery strategies and define a value roadmap.
 - Explain how to coach an Agile team and help them overcome challenges.
 - Conduct a job search for an Agile role and learn how to succeed in your interview.


 Show less
Basic Info	
Course 5 of 6 in the Google Project Management: Specialization
Level	Beginner
Language	
English
Volunteer to translate subtitles for this course
How To Pass	Pass all graded assignments to complete the course.
User Ratings	
Average User Rating 4.8
Syllabus
WEEK 1
The fundamentals of Agile
You will learn how the course is structured and explore the history, approach, and philosophy of Agile project management and Scrum theory. You will also learn why Agile is best suited to industries that are susceptible to change and how to differentiate and blend Agile approaches.

11 videos, 5 readings, 3 practice quizzes
Video: Introduction to Course 5
Reading: Course 5 overview
Reading: Helpful resources to get started
Discussion Prompt: Meet and greet
Video: A brief history of Agile
Video: Distinguishing Agile from Waterfall
Practice Quiz: Test your knowledge: The Agile approach
Discussion Prompt: Agile or Waterfall?
Video: The four values of the Agile Manifesto
Ungraded Plugin: Explore: Agile values
Video: The 12 principles of the Agile Manifesto
Reading: Adopting an Agile mindset: The Agile Manifesto
Video: Adopting an Agile mindset
Practice Quiz: Test your knowledge: The Agile Manifesto
Video: Applying Agile in a VUCA environment
Video: Introduction to Scrum
Reading: The founding principles of Scrum
Video: Introduction to Kanban, XP, and Lean
Video: Blending project management approaches
Reading: The Spotify model
Practice Quiz: Test your knowledge: Agile frameworks
Video: Wrap-up

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: Weekly Challenge 1
WEEK 2
Scrum 101
You will learn the pillars of Scrum and how they support Scrum values. You will also compare essential Scrum Team roles and examine what makes them effective.
9 videos, 3 readings, 1 practice quiz
Video: Introduction: Scrum 101
Video: The three pillars of Scrum
Video: The five values of Scrum
Ungraded Plugin: Identify: Scrum pillars and values
Reading: The Scrum Guide
Discussion Prompt: Applying Scrum values
Video: Essential Scrum roles
Video: Traits of an effective Scrum Master
Video: Pete: What makes an effective Scrum Master
Video: Traits of an effective Product Owner
Video: Traits of an effective Development Team
Reading: Understanding Scrum Team roles
Reading: Characteristics of a great Scrum Team
Practice Quiz: Test your knowledge: Scrum roles
Video: Wrap-up

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Weekly Challenge 2
WEEK 3
Implementing Scrum
You will learn how to build and manage a Product Backlog and develop user stories and epics. You will also explore how to set up the five important Scrum events and use tools to plan and visualize sprint workflows and progress.
16 videos, 12 readings, 7 practice quizzes
Video: Introduction: Implementing Scrum
Video: Building a Product Backlog
Reading: Product Backlog: The Scrum Guide overview
Practice Quiz: Test your knowledge: The Product Backlog
Video: Writing user stories
Reading: The components of user stories and epics
Ungraded Plugin: Identify: User stories and acceptance criteria
Reading: Activity Exemplar: Create a Product Backlog
Video: Create a product backlog in Asana
Practice Quiz: Activity: Create a Product Backlog in Asana
Video: Backlog refinement and effort estimation
Reading: Agile effort estimation techniques
Reading: T-shirt sizes and story points
Practice Quiz: Activity: Add estimation
Reading: Activity Exemplar: Add estimation
Video: Adding estimation in Asana
Practice Quiz: Activity: Adding estimation in Asana
Video: Introduction to the Sprint
Reading: The Sprint: The Scrum Guide overview
Practice Quiz: Test your knowledge: The Sprint
Video: Sprint planning
Video: Create and manage Sprints in Asana
Practice Quiz: Activity: Create and manage Sprints in Asana
Video: The Daily Scrum and Sprint Review
Video: Sarah: The benefits of a Daily Standup
Reading: Releasable Increment versus Minimum Viable Product
Video: The Sprint Retrospective
Reading: Sprint Retrospectives: Pitfalls and best practices
Practice Quiz: Activity: Recap a Sprint Retrospective
Reading: Activity Exemplar: Recap a Sprint Retrospective
Video: Velocity and burndown charts
Reading: Interpreting velocity: Dos and Don'ts
Video: Utilizing Kanban boards
Ungraded Plugin: Practice: Using a Kanban board
Video: Tools for transparency and collaboration
Video: Wrap-up
Reading: Optional: Agile in a nutshell

Show lessweek 3 material
Graded: Activity: Create a Product Backlog
Graded: Activity: Create a Sprint Plan and Sprint Backlog
Graded: Weekly Challenge 3
WEEK 4
Applying Agile in the organization
You will learn to implement Agile’s value-driven delivery strategies and how to define a value roadmap. You will learn strategies to effectively introduce an Agile or Scrum approach to an organization and coach an Agile team. You will also investigate how Agile frameworks have evolved and how to land opportunities in Agile roles.

14 videos, 12 readings, 7 practice quizzes
expandweek 4 material

Graded: Weekly Challenge 4
