Wi-Fi 6
Wi-Fi 6, formerly known as 802.11ax, is one of the largest leaps in Wi-Fi technology since its introduction.
This reading will introduce you to the benefits and technology used in Wi-Fi 6.

Benefits of Wi-Fi 6
The Wi-Fi 6 network protocol is faster and more efficient for networks with a larger number of connected devices.

Key benefits of Wi-Fi 6 technology include:
Higher data rates: Band splitting or increased client group sizes allow for uploading and downloading greater amounts of data.
Increased band capacity: Band utilization increased from 80mHz to 160mHz, creating a faster connection from the router to connected devices.
Better performance: The input/output streams are doubled from the 4 by 4 allowed by Wi-Fi 5, to 8 by 8 in Wi-Fi 6, allowing more clients to be grouped. 
Improved power efficiency: Devices only connect to the network when sending or receiving data, increasing battery life. 

Capabilities of Wi-Fi 6:
Wi-Fi 6 technology improves functionality and connectivity.
Channel sharing for better efficiency and shortens the time it takes to send data once a user gives the send command. 
Target Wake Time (TWT): improves the network speed and increases battery life by allowing battery-powered devices to sleep when not in use. 
Multi-user MIMO (Multiple Input, Multiple Output): wireless technology allows more data to be transferred simultaneously.
  This ability increases capacity and efficiency in high bandwidth applications like voice calls or video streaming.
160 MHz channel utilization gives more space for transmitting data and increases bandwidth capability.
1024 Quadrature amplitude modulation combines two signals into a single channel, so more data is encoded.
Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access (OFDMA) allows for bandwidth splitting, which is assigned dynamically by the access point to
  separate devices. 
Transmit beamforming is a technique that sends signals that allow for more efficient higher data rates by targeting each connected device.

Wi-Fi 6E extends Wi-Fi 6 into 6 GHz
Wi-Fi 6E is an additional certification for Wi-Fi 6 that has all of the features of Wi-Fi 6 but adds a third 6 GHz band. Wi-Fi 6E has more
channels to use to broadcast, including 14 more 80MHz channels and seven more 160MHz channels. The additional channels allow networks with Wi-Fi
6E for better performance even when streaming high-definition video or using virtual reality devices. 

Key takeaways :
Wi-Fi technology will continue to change as the needs of companies and users change. Wi-Fi 6 improves the quality of networks with faster 
speeds and energy-saving technology. 

Wi-Fi 6 uses technologies like channel sharing, Target Wake Time, Multi-user MIMO, channel utilization, amplitude modulation, OFDMA,
and transmit beamforming to increase the quality of a Wi-Fi network. 

Wi-Fi 6E is an additional certification of Wi-Fi 6 that has even faster speeds and stronger performance. 

Resource for more information
For more information about Wi-Fi 6, read this article by the Wi-Fi Alliance: Wi-Fi CERTIFIED 6.
https://www.wi-fi.org/discover-wi-fi/wi-fi-certified-6
