Step 1
Begin with the standard boilerplate. Add your DOCTYPE declaration, your html element with the language set to English, your head and body elements.
Add your meta element for the correct charset, your title element, and a link element for the ./styles.css file.
Set the title to Ferris Wheel.

Step 2
Add a div within your body element and give it a class of wheel.
Inside your new div, add six span elements with a class set to line, and six div elements with a class set to cabin.

Step 3
Create a selector for your .wheel element. Start by setting the border to 2px solid black, the border-radius to 50%, and the margin-left to 50px.

Step 4
Set the position property of the .wheel selector to absolute. Set the height and width both to 55vw.

Step 5
Give your .wheel selector a max-height and max-width property both set to 500px.

Step 6
Create a selector for your .line elements. Start by setting the background-color to black, the width to 50%, and the height to 2px.

Step 7
Set the .line selector's position property to absolute, the left property to 50%, and the top property to 50%.

Step 8
The transform-origin property is used to set the point around which a CSS transformation is applied.
For example, when performing a rotate (which you will do later in this project), the transform-origin determines around which point the element is rotated.
Give the .line selector a transform-origin property of 0% 0%. This will offset the origin point by 0% from the left and 0% from the top, setting it to the top 
left corner of the element. transform-origin: 0% 0%;

Step 9
Create a selector to target your second .line element. Set the transform property to rotate(60deg).
Remember that the transform property allows you to manipulate the shape of an element. In this case, using the rotate(60deg) value will
rotate the element around its transform-origin point by 60 degrees clockwise.  .line:nth-of-type(2) {transform: rotate(60deg)}

Step 10
Using the same pattern, create a separate selector for the third .line, the fourth .line, the fifth .line, and the sixth .line.
Set the transform property for the third .line to rotate(120deg), the fourth to rotate(180deg), the fifth to rotate(240deg), and the sixth to rotate(300deg).















































































