Activity Overview
Congratulations! You’ve come a long way and worked hard to complete all of the individual project planning documents, also known as project artifacts, in this course. In this activity, you will gather those documents and compile and organize them in one central place—your project plan. Having your documents in one place makes communication quicker, easier, and more streamlined, so everyone can find the information they need. 

Be sure to complete this activity before moving on. The next course item will provide you with a completed exemplar to compare to your own work. You will not be able to access the exemplar until you have completed this activity.   

Scenario

Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

As the project manager for Office Green’s Plant Pals Operations and Training plan launch, you want to keep all your planning documents organized in a central location. That way, you can easily share information and track the status of the project’s many moving pieces. Your project folders and labels should be clearly organized to provide visibility, continuity, and accountability.

A project plan is not only useful for streamlining team communications, it can also help you with retrospectives and planning for future projects.

Step-by-step Instructions

Step 1: Access the template

To use the template for this course item, click the link below and select “Use Template.” 


Link to template: Project plan

OR 

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


Step 2: Add project details

There are four tabs at the bottom of the template: Dashboard, Project Schedule, Budget, and Communication Plan. First, go to the Dashboard tab. You’ll use this tab to provide a brief overview of the project and link to key project documents. 

In the topmost section of the Dashboard, fill in the following information as indicated in the template:

Project name

Project description

Project owner (You can use your name, make up a name, or simply write “Project Manager.”)

Project status (mark the status as Draft for now)

Note: Leave the descriptions of the Key Docs blank for now. You will fill them in once you complete the rest of the document. 

Step 3: Gather project documents 

Next, gather your main project documents from the activities in this course: 

Activity: Estimate a project plan in a Gantt chart

Activity: Develop a project budget

Activity: Draft a communication plan

Activity: Complete a Statement of Work (SoW)

Activity: Create a risk management plan

Optional: Gather your finished documents from the following activities in the previous course, Project Initiation: Starting a Successful Project:

Project charter 

RACI charts

Step 4: Add the documents to their respective tabs

Copy your completed Gantt chart, budget, and communication plan to the following tabs of your project plan:

The Gantt chart spreadsheet should become the Project Schedule tab.

The budget spreadsheet should become the Budget tab.

The communication plan spreadsheet should become the Communication Plan tab.

If you are using Google Sheets, we recommend using the Copy to > Existing spreadsheet function:

Open both your project plan and your source sheet (the spreadsheet you want to copy—e.g., your Gantt chart).

Copy your project plan URL.

Go to your source sheet and find the tab at the bottom (e.g., for your Gantt chart, this is the tab labeled “Gantt chart”). 

Click the down arrow on the tab and select Copy to > Existing spreadsheet.

Paste the project plan URL into the bottom of the box that appears.

Choose Select to copy the source sheet into your project plan.

The copied sheet will appear as a new tab at the bottom of your project plan. You can then delete the blank tab (“Project schedule,” “Budget,” or “Communication plan”) and rename the newly copied tab.

For Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software, you can drag a spreadsheet tab from one spreadsheet to another:

Arrange your spreadsheets so that both your project plan and your source spreadsheet (e.g., your Gantt chart) are side-by-side. (You may need to resize them first.)

Click the tab at the bottom of your source spreadsheet and drag it to the tab bar of your project plan.

The copied sheet will appear as a new tab at the bottom of your project plan. You can then delete the blank tab (Project schedule, Budget, or Communication plan) and rename the newly copied tab.

You can also copy all the cells of the source spreadsheet and then paste the content into the relevant tab in your project plan. 

Step 5: Optional: Add hyperlinks to the Dashboard tab

Next, you can add hyperlinks to your project plan tabs and other documents to the Key Docs section of the Dashboard tab. Creating links to the main documents in your project plan lets your team access them quickly and easily.

Note: If your project documents are not in the cloud or online, you won’t be able to link to them, and are not expected to do this step.

If you’re using Google Drive, follow these steps to hyperlink your Project Schedule, Budget, and Communication Plan tabs to the Dashboard:

Under Key Docs in the Dashboard tab, select the cell with the name of the document you want to link (e.g. “Schedule”).

Go to Insert and select Link (or select the Insert link icon from the toolbar).

Choose Sheets in this spreadsheet and select the name of the tab you want to hyperlink.

Select Apply to link the tab.

To add hyperlinks to your Statement of Work, risk management plan, project charter, and RACI charts:

Copy the URL for the document you want to link.

Select the cell that matches the document you want to link (e.g., “Project charter”).

Select Insert link and paste the URL.

Select Apply to link the document. 

If you want to create a shared folder so you can link to all your files, create a central folder on Google Drive, or any other file sharing program (e.g., Microsoft, Dropbox or Mac). Then, add the documents to the shared folder and generate a hyperlink to the Key Docs section of the Dashboard. 

Step 6: Add descriptions

In the Dashboard tab, write a short description of each document under Description. (Do this even if you haven’t created hyperlinks to your project documents. Your descriptions should be brief, but specific, so your stakeholders know exactly what each document contains.

Note: Be sure to adjust the sharing settings for your project documents and folders. To learn how to change sharing settings in Google Drive, visit this resource.

Step 7: Save your project plan

Save your completed project plan to your computer or Google Drive. You'll need it again in the next course, Project Execution: Running the Project.

Pro Tip: Save the template
Finally, be sure to save a blank copy of the project plan template you used to complete this activity. You can use it for further practice or in your own personal or professional projects. These templates will be useful as you put together a portfolio of project management artifacts. You can use them to talk through your thought processes as you demonstrate your experience to potential employers.

What to Include in Your Response

Be sure to address the following elements in your completed project plan:

Project details at the top of your Dashboard tab

Links for all documents listed in the Dashboard

Tabs for the completed Gantt chart (Project Schedule), Budget, Communication Plan, and if applicable, RACI chart

A link to a shareable folder containing all of your project resources

Did you complete this activity?
