Peer-graded Assignment: Activity: Estimate a project plan in a Gantt chart


Ready for the assignment?
You will find instructions below to submit.
InstructionsMy submissionDiscussions
Activity Overview
Line break
In this activity, you will practice estimating a project plan by creating a Gantt chart. Gantt charts are especially helpful for visually mapping out project schedules and tasks. They are useful for complex projects because they clearly show project tasks, task owners, when tasks are being worked on, and when those tasks are due. 

This activity expands on the Office Green operations launch scenario you used to create your WBS. 

After you submit your work, review and respond to at least two of your classmates’ assignments.

Scenario
less 
Review the scenario below. Then complete the step-by-step instructions.

Line break
In the previous activity, Activity: Use a WBS to create project tasks and milestones - Part 1, you began a new stage of the Plant Pals project for Office Green.
This part of the project involves working with the operations team to develop and implement an Operations and Training plan for the new service. 

As a reminder, here is a review of the Operations and Training plan:

Your team will use the plan for ongoing maintenance of the Plant Pals service.

It will take six months to fully implement all protocols, including setting up operational tools, putting delivery processes in place, and training employees.

The project will begin before the Plant Pals launch and extend beyond it.

Your team for this stage of the project includes the following roles:

A Financial Analyst, who tracks and calculates costs and revenue

A Fulfillment Director, who sources materials, confirms fulfillment processes are correctly implemented, and ensures equipment is functional 
(with the help of the Quality Assurance Tester)

An Inventory Manager, who maintains inventory and oversees software installation 

A Human Resources Specialist, who manages hiring and develops training protocols (with the help of the Training Manager)

A Training Manager, who reports to the HR Specialist, runs the training program on the established protocols, and refines training processes

A Quality Assurance Tester, who ensures product quality and determines safety protocols and best practices  

There are three major milestones and associated tasks for the Operations and Training plan:

Milestone 1: Establish a plant delivery and logistics plan

Source packaging materials. This task will take 10 business days (March 1st to March 12th).

Hire delivery drivers. This process will also take ten business days (March 15th to March 26th).

Calculate the delivery fees. This task will also take 10 business days (March 29th to April 9th). 

Milestone 2: Select and install supply chain software and equipment

Supervise vendor setup of inventory management and fulfillment software. This process will take three business days (April 12th to April 14th). 

Supervise vendor installation of the fulfillment equipment from April 15th to April 16th (two business days). 

Determine internal safety protocols for the equipment from April 19th to April 30th (10 business days). 

Milestone 3: Develop and launch an employee training program

Develop training sessions. This task will take 10 business days (May 3rd to May 14th).

Train employees to use the software and equipment. The training sessions will take place over 10 business days (May 17th to May 28th). 

Monitor employee progress and improve training processes. This process will last for 10 business days (May 31st to June 11th).

Your goal is to put all of this information into a Gantt chart, so your team can tell who owns what tasks, when each task is due, and how long the overall 
project will take.

Step-By-Step Assignment Instructions
less 
Step 1: Access the template

To use the template for this course item, click the link below and select “Use Template.” 

Line break
Link to template: Gantt chart

OR

If you don’t have a Google account, you can download the template directly from the attachment below.


Step 2: Add milestones to your Gantt chart

Add your three project milestones to the Gantt chart in sequential order. Enter them in the grey cells under Milestones & Tasks. We have already added one milestone
for you ("Develop and launch an employee training program").

Step 3. Add tasks to your Gantt chart

Now add the project tasks to the Milestones & Tasks column. Be sure to list each task in sequential order under the appropriate milestone. Your chart should contain 
three tasks per milestone (nine tasks in total). We have already added one task per milestone for you.

Step 4: Assign task owners

Next, determine who should own each task. When selecting task owners, consider how your team members’ jobs relate to the project’s tasks. Enter each task owner’s 
role under the Task Owner column.

Note: While more than one person can work on a task, you should assign only one owner per task.

Step 5: Set start dates, due dates, and durations

Now review the scenario and write the start date for each task under Start Date. Then enter task due dates under Due Date. Finally, record each task’s duration under 
Duration. 

Note: Make sure to exclude weekends when calculating durations.

Step 6: Color code your timeline

On the right side of the chart, under Phase One, Phase Two, and Phase Three, mark the duration of each task by color-coding the cells below the corresponding dates. 

For example, Task 1.2 runs from March 15th through March 26th. We’ve filled in the boxes that correspond to those dates in the template. Be sure to use the shade of 
blue that matches each project phase in the chart.

Pro Tip: Save the template
Finally, be sure to save a blank copy of the Gantt chart template you used to complete this activity. You can use it for further practice or in your own personal or 
professional projects. These templates will be useful as you put together a portfolio of project management artifacts. You can use them to work through your thought
processes as you demonstrate your experience to potential employers.

Review criteria
less 
There are a total of 6 points for this activity. At least two of your peers will evaluate your Gantt chart. Your final grade will be the median of these scores.
You must get 5 out of 6 total points to pass.

Giving Good Feedback
less 
Once you submit your Gantt chart, review at least two of your classmates’ work and give feedback on their charts. Below, you will find some guidelines to help you 
leave constructive comments for your peers. 

When giving feedback, consider:

Leading with positive feedback

Providing actionable feedback

Sticking to information-specific, issue-focused, and observation centered comments

Ready to submit your work? Head to the My Submission tab at the top of the page.
