Supply Chain Logistics
by Rutgers the State University of New Jersey

About this Course
Have you ever wondered how goods get delivered to us so quickly as soon as we order them? One word: Logistics! In this introductory Supply Chain Logistics course, I will take you on a journey to this fascinating backbone of global trade. We cover the three major building blocks of logistics networks: transportation, warehousing, and inventory. After completing this course, you will be able to differentiate the advantages and disadvantages of different modes of transportation. You will understand what goes into designing and setting up a warehousing facility. Finally, you will be able to select the options that enable you to develop logistics networks, that minimize costs and deliver top customer service. This is an introductory course designed to provide you with a start on your learning journey in logistics. You do not need to have any background in logistics, but it would be beneficial if you had a basic understanding of business concepts. Join me and we will learn together about logistics!

Interested in learning advanced supply chain topics? Check out the Supply Chain Excellence MasterTrack™ Certificate: https://www.coursera.org/mastertrack/supply-chain-excellence-rutgers


 Show less
Rudolf Leuschner, Ph.D.
Taught by:Rudolf Leuschner, Ph.D., Associate Professor

Department of Supply Chain Management
Basic Info	
Course 1 of 5 in the Supply Chain Management Specialization
Level	Beginner
Commitment	4 weeks of study, 2-3 hours/week
Language	
English, Subtitles: Arabic, French, Portuguese (European), Greek, Italian, Vietnamese, German, Russian, Turkish, Spanish, Hungarian
Volunteer to translate subtitles for this course
How To Pass	Pass all graded assignments to complete the course.
User Ratings	
Average User Rating 4.8
Syllabus
WEEK 1
Transportation
Welcome to the exciting world of logistics! We are going to start by taking a look at transportation. But before we get there, I would like to introduce you to myself. We will cover the different modes of transportation: motor freight, air freight, intermodal, and express delivery. After completing this module, you'll be able to weigh the benefits and drawbacks of different transportation modes. Furthermore, you will demonstrate how transportation systems use different modes to facilitate the efficient movement of goods from origin to destination. Lastly, you will be able to recognize what transportation modes were used by a shipping company just by looking at the tracking statement.

Show less
7 videos, 9 readings, 1 practice quiz
Video: The Importance of Logistics
Reading: Is this course for me?
Discussion Prompt: What are you looking to learn from this course?
Video: Moving Freight over the Road
Reading: Objectives, Summary, and Further Information about Moving Freight over the Road
Discussion Prompt: What characteristics make truck the ideal mode of transportation for many goods?
Video: Motor Carriers
Reading: Objectives, Summary, and Further Information about Motor Carriers
Video: Flying Freight
Reading: Objectives, Summary, and Further Information about Flying Freight
Discussion Prompt: Types of Goods moved on planes
Video: Air Carriers
Reading: Objectives, Summary, and Further Information about Air Carriers
Practice Quiz: Air Freight Assessment
Video: Containers on a Train
Reading: Objectives, Summary, and Further Information on Containers on a Train
Discussion Prompt: Goods on rail?
Video: Express Delivery
Reading: Objectives, Summary, and Further Information on Express Delivery
Reading: Express Delivery Firms Background
Discussion Prompt: Express Delivery Firms
Reading: Comparison of Transportation Modes

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: Motor Freight Assessment
Graded: Transportation Assignment
WEEK 2
Warehousing and Inventory Management
This module introduces you to warehousing and inventory management. After completing this module, you will be able to design your of warehousing facility. You will also understand the different types of inventory and why they are important to ensure customers can find the products they are looking for.

4 videos, 1 reading
Video: Why do companies need warehouses?
Discussion Prompt: Features of warehouses
Video: How should we design a warehouse?
Discussion Prompt: New technology in warehouses
Reading: Warehousing Best Practices
Video: How much inventory do we need?
Discussion Prompt: Cost of Inventory
Video: When to order inventory?

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Lay out your own Warehouse
Graded: Inventory Assessment
WEEK 3
Logistics Network
This module builds on the previously covered building blocks of logistics networks and reviews the implications of putting together a logistics network. After completing this module, you will be ready to tackle the final exam and able to design your own logistics network and understand the implications of logistics decisions on the overall satisfaction of our customers.

3 videos, 1 reading
Video: Facilities: How many and where?
Reading: The Square Root Law
Discussion Prompt: Logistics Facilities
Video: Factors Influencing Logistics Networks
Discussion Prompt: Economic Environment for Logistics
Video: Striving for Logistics Customer Service

Show lessweek 3 material
Graded: Logistics Customer Service
WEEK 4
Final Exam
This module builds on the previously covered transportation, warehousing, and inventory. You will be able to appreciate the implications of putting together a logistics network. Furthermore, you will put all of the things into practice that we covered in the previous weeks. After completing this module, you will have shown that you master the basics of logistics and are able to design your own logistics network.

1 reading
Reading: Logistics Networks Best Practices

Show lessweek 4 material
Graded: Build a Logistics Network
