Peer-graded Assignment: Supply Chain Planning Assessment
DeadlineDec 25, 11:59 PM AST
Ready for the assignment?
You will find instructions below to submit.
InstructionsMy submissionDiscussions
The goal of this assignment is to implement the forecasting methods covered in this course.  In addition to coming up with a forecast, 
you will be asked to interpret the data and forecast.

Review criteria
less 
This assignment will be graded based on the accuracy of your forecast and the interpretations you provide regarding the data and your forecast.
The expectations will be that you analyze the data provided and make recommendations regarding your forecasts. 

Some of the grading depends on the justifications and recommendations you make.  Please be very careful in how you address those questions.  
Regardless, in many instances, there are no right or wrong answers, thus making your justifications more important.

Step-By-Step Assignment Instructions
less 
Assignment Topic: Forecasting

Setup instructions:

Before you begin, you will need to download the following file:

It contains actual demand data for four real products (A, B, C, and D).  I cannot tell you what the product are, 
but the industry is pharmaceuticals.

How to submit:

Analyze the data contained, applying any forecasting method you believe will produce an accurate forecast.

You will be required to submit your assignment using any statistics, graphs, and interpretations you produced from analyzing the data.

Make sure to include any relevant statistics that are necessary to showcase your forecast.

There is no need to include the actual forecasted values or any of the data.

Questions:
or each one of the four products, what patterns do you see and what does it mean for the forecast?

Which forecasting methods did you try for each product? Why did you choose those forecasting methods?

What is your conclusion of the results? Do the forecasting methods work well? 

Do you have any thoughts on how could you possibly improve them?

Now that you have forecasts for these products, what next? Please outline the next steps in how you would use the forecast to create a Supply Chain Plan.


