Supply Chain Planning
by Rutgers the State University of New Jersey

About this Course
Have you ever wondered how companies know how much to produce in advance so that they do not make too much or too little? Matching supply and demand requires planning. This course introduces you to the exciting area of supply chain planning. Part of a broader specialization on Supply Chain Management, you will master different forecasting techniques, essential for building a Sales and Operations Plan. At the completion of this course you will have the tools and techniques to analyze demand data, construct different forecasting techniques, and choose the most suitable one for projecting future demand.


 More
Rudolf Leuschner, Ph.D.
Taught by:Rudolf Leuschner, Ph.D., Associate Professor

Department of Supply Chain Management
Basic Info	
Course 3 of 5 in the Supply Chain Management Specialization
Level	Beginner
Language	
English, Subtitles: Arabic, French, Portuguese (European), Greek, Italian, Vietnamese, German, Russian, Spanish, Hungarian
Volunteer to translate subtitles for this course
How To Pass	Pass all graded assignments to complete the course.
User Ratings	
Average User Rating 4.7
Syllabus
WEEK 1
Simple Forecasting Methods, Naive Forecast and Cumulative Mean
Welcome to the exciting world of planning! This module introduces you to the professor who is teaching the courses in the Supply Chain Management Specialization. You will also construct forecasting models that enable you to predict future demand. By the end of this short module, you'll know what to expect in the course and hopefully be as excited to learn about Supply Chain Planning as I will be to teach you.In this module learners will review two simple forecasting methods, the naive method and the cumulative mean. Finally, you will create forecasts of your own based on a data set and provide the correct answers in the quiz.

Show less
6 videos, 6 readings, 2 practice quizzes
Video: What is Supply Chain Planning?
Reading: Is this course for me?
Discussion Prompt: Introductions
Video: So, you want to forecast demand?
Discussion Prompt: Simple Forecasting Methods
Peer Review: Simple Forecasting Methods
Video: The Naive Forecast
Reading: Naive Forecast Example
Video: Naive Forecast Screencast
Practice Quiz: Naive Forecast Practice Quiz
Reading: Naive Forecast Solution
Video: The Cumulative Mean
Reading: Cumulative Mean Example
Video: Cumulative Mean Screencast
Practice Quiz: Cumulative Mean Practice Quiz
Reading: Cumulative Mean Solution
Reading: Naive Method and Cumulative Mean Quiz Instructions

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: Naive Forecast and Cumulative Mean Assessment
WEEK 2
Forecast Accuracy and Moving Average
In this module, learners will cover two more sophisticated forecasting methods, the moving average and exponential smoothing.
4 videos, 7 readings, 2 practice quizzes
Video: Forecast Accuracy Measures
Reading: Notes on Forecast Accuracy Measures
Video: Forecast Accuracy Measures Screencast
Practice Quiz: Forecast Accuracy Practice Quiz
Reading: Forecast Accuracy Solution
Reading: Forecast Accuracy Quiz Instructions
Video: Moving Average
Reading: Moving Average Notes
Video: Screencast on Moving Average
Reading: About Rounding
Practice Quiz: Moving Average Practice Quiz
Reading: Moving Average Solution
Reading: Moving Average Quiz Instructions

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Forecast Accuracy
Graded: Moving Average
WEEK 3
Exponential Smoothing and Forecast Selection
In this module, you will master one more forecasting method - exponential smoothing. In addition, you will learn how to pick the best forecasting approach and what to do with the forecast once it is implemented.
3 videos, 5 readings, 1 practice quiz
Video: Exponential Smoothing
Reading: Exponential Smoothing Notes
Video: Exponential Smothing Screencast
Practice Quiz: Exponential Smoothing Practice Quiz
Reading: Exponential Smoothing Solution
Reading: Exponential Smoothing Quiz Instructions
Reading: Optimizing Exponential Smoothing
Video: Selecting the Best Forecast
Reading: Forecasting Best Practices
Peer Review: Selecting the Best Forecasting Method

Show lessweek 3 material
Graded: Exponential Smoothing Forecast
WEEK 4
Supply Chain Planning
In this module you will put your new forecasting skills to the test. You will analyze a real-life dataset and make recommendations on the different forecasting methods.
1 video, 1 reading
Video: Supply, Manufacturing and Distribution Planning
Reading: Sales and Operations Planning
Discussion Prompt: Sales and Operations Planning

Show lessweek 4 material
Graded: Supply Chain Planning Assessment
