Supply Chain Operations
by Rutgers the State University of New Jersey

About this Course
Have you ever wondered how products and services are created exactly the same thousands of times over? And how companies are able to smooth out operations to manufacture efficiently, effectively, and without any waste? How is such precision possible? The answer lies at the heart of operations. In the Supply Chain Operations course, we introduce and apply essential process improvement tools to achieve perfection. After completing this course, you will be able to apply the Six Sigma methodology for process improvement. You will demonstrate that you understand the basic tenets of the Lean philosophy that enables manufacturers to eliminate waste and make processes more efficient.  Finally, you will be able to apply the tools that you just gained to improve a process of your own. This is an introductory course designed to provide you with a start on your learning journey in operations. You do not need to have any background in operations, but it would be beneficial if you had a basic understanding of business concepts, a working knowledge of spreadsheets, and ideally have mastered the Supply Chain Logistics course. Join me and we will learn together about operations!


 More
Rudolf Leuschner, Ph.D.
Taught by:Rudolf Leuschner, Ph.D., Associate Professor

Department of Supply Chain Management
Basic Info	
Course 2 of 5 in the Supply Chain Management Specialization
Level	Beginner
Commitment	4 weeks of study, 2-3 hours/week
Language	
English, Subtitles: Arabic, French, Portuguese (European), Greek, Italian, Vietnamese, German, Russian, Turkish, Spanish
Volunteer to translate subtitles for this course
How To Pass	Pass all graded assignments to complete the course.
User Ratings	
Average User Rating 4.8
Syllabus
WEEK 1
Lean Operations and Theory of Constraints
Welcome to the exciting world of operations! This module introduces you to the professor who is teaching the courses in the Supply Chain Management Specialization. You will also discover the essential tools that help make operations better. By the end of this module, you'll know what to expect in the course and hopefully be as excited to learn about Supply Chain Operations as I will be to teach you. In addition, you will understand the major goals of optimizing Operations. You will also be able to recall the major foundations of Lean Thinking and the Theory of Constraints.

Show less
4 videos, 3 readings
Video: What is Supply Chain Operations?
Reading: Is this course for me?
Discussion Prompt: Introductions
Video: The Goals of Operations: Speed, Flexibility, Quality, and Cost
Video: Lean Operations
Reading: "Lean Thinking" by Womack and Jones
Discussion Prompt: Lean Thinking
Video: Theory of Constraints
Reading: "The Goal" by Goldratt
Discussion Prompt: Theory of Constraints

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: The Goals of Operations
WEEK 2
Lean Inventory
In Lean Inventory, we will focus on the application of lean principles to a core concern of Supply Chain Management - Inventory. By the end of this module, you'll know how to calculate the Economic Order Quantity, which is an popular method of managing inventory. In addition, you will be able to quantify the uncertainty of demand and logistical execution to select the right level of safety stock. Finally, you will be able to determine the size of a Kanban bin by calculating lead-time-demand.

Show less
4 videos, 6 readings
Video: Lean Inventory
Reading: Economic Order Quantity Terms and Notation
Video: Screencast - Economic Order Quantity
Reading: The EOQ Calculation
Reading: Safety Stock Terms and Calculation
Video: Screencast - Safety Stock Calculation
Reading: The Safety Stock Calculation
Video: Kanban
Reading: Kanban
Reading: Lean Inventory Quiz Instructions

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Lean Inventory
WEEK 3
Six Sigma
Six Sigma is an overview of the Six Sigma Quality System. We start by reviewing the different quality systems that were popular in the past. The main takeaway is an understanding of the DMAIC methodology. By the end of this module, you will be able to apply the DMAIC methodology to improve a process.

6 videos, 2 readings
Video: From "Quality is Free" to "Six Sigma"
Video: DMAIC and the Define Stage
Discussion Prompt: What should happen after the Define Stage?
Video: Screencast of DMAIC and the Measure Stage
Discussion Prompt: What should happen after the Measure Stage?
Video: Screencast of DMAIC and the Analyze Stage
Discussion Prompt: What should happen after the Analyze Stage?
Video: Screencast of DMAIC and the Improve Stage
Discussion Prompt: What should happen after the Improve Stage?
Video: Screencast of DMAIC and the Control Stage
Discussion Prompt: What should happen after the Control Stage?
Reading: Summary of the DMAIC Example
Reading: Some more Six Sigma Examples
Peer Review: Six Sigma Case Studies

Show lessweek 3 material
Graded: Quality Management and the DMAIC Methodology
WEEK 4
Lean Six Sigma
In Lean Six Sigma, you will apply all the tools you learned in this course to a project of your choosing. You will be able to show that you not only mastered the lean tools, but also the six sigma methodology to improve processes. After completing this module, you will not only have a better process, but also the ability to improve any process in a systematic manner.

1 video, 2 readings
Video: The Lean Six Sigma Toolkit
Reading: The Road to Lean Six Sigma
Reading: Selecting a Great Lean Six Sigma Project

Show lessweek 4 material
Graded: Lean Six Sigma
