Syllabus
Week 1
Procurement, Purchasing, Supply Management, and Strategic Sourcing
Welcome to the exciting world of sourcing! This module introduces you to the professor who is teaching the courses in the Supply Chain Management Specialization. After completing this module you will be able to understand the different levels of sourcing: the act of purchasing, the work that is performed in a procurement department, how to differentiate different supplier categories with strategic sourcing, and how to elevate a firm's performance with strategic sourcing.

5 videos, 3 readings
Video: What is Supply Chain Sourcing?
Reading: Is this course for me?
Discussion Prompt: Introductions
Discussion Prompt: What is your personal approach to procurement in every day life?
Video: Purchasing
Video: Procurement
Video: Supply Management
Reading: Purchasing Must Become Supply Management
Video: Strategic Sourcing
Discussion Prompt: Strategic Suppliers
Reading: Coke and McDonald’s, Growing Together Since 1955

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: Purchasing and Procurement
Week 2
Make versus Buy Decisions
In this module, you will review the principles of make versus buy decisions. What are the advantages and disadvantage of insourcing and outsourcing? We will review the risks and benefits of both, which will enable you to understand what goes into these decisions and why companies make them. In he assessment, you will review an outsourcing decision that a company or organization made and understand how it affects various stakeholders.

3 videos, 2 readings
Video: The Make versus Buy Decision
Discussion Prompt: Make versus Buy Decisions we faced.
Video: Why Should I Insource?
Reading: From Superstorms to Factory Fires: Managing Unpredictable Supply-Chain Disruptions
Discussion Prompt: Benefits of Insourcing
Video: Why Should I Outsource?
Discussion Prompt: Benefits of Outsourcing
Reading: The Outsourcing Dilemma

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Review an Outsourcing Decision
Week 3
Supplier Selection
In this module, you will see an overview supplier segmentation and what the advantages and disadvantages of single and multiple sourcing. Furthermore, you will review the implications of sourcing on the entire firm in an assessment.
2 videos, 2 readings
Video: Supplier Segmentation
Discussion Prompt: Dimensions of Supplier Categories
Video: Single versus Multiple Sourcing
Discussion Prompt: Single Sourcing
Reading: Don't Let Your Supply Chain Control Your Business
Discussion Prompt: Don't Let your Supply Chain Control Your Business
Discussion Prompt: The Outsourcing Debate
Reading: Sourcing at Johnson & Johnson

Show lessweek 3 material
Graded: How Sourcing affects the Company
Week 4
Sourcing Best Practices
In this module, we will review some best practices in sourcing and procure-to-pay systems which enable firms to automate and accelerate essential sourcing functions. In the assessment you will build a supplier evaluation system that you can use in your personal and professional lives.

2 videos, 2 readings
Video: Sourcing Best Practices
Discussion Prompt: Your Supplier Categories
Video: Procure-to-Pay Systems
Reading: Supplier Pay
Discussion Prompt: Supplier Pay
Reading: Don’t Tweak Your Supply Chain—Rethink It End to End

Show lessweek 4 material
Graded: Supplier Evaluation Assessment
