The goal of this assignment is to analyze the logistics of MTC and provide recommendations to the savings 
you can generate by improving the transportation and warehousing. The key learning in this assignment is to recognize different 
logistical issues that can improve the profitability of the firm.

Project Title

Provide us with a drawing of the outbound product flow.  Specifically, where do products go after they are manufactured?  
Be sure to include all locations that are mentioned in the case.

 The flow of products from the manufacturing plant to the hospital operating room usually takes devices through a lengthy path.
  The manufacturers assemble the products usually in lots of 7,200 per week.
  it is not possible to predict which items will be needed in an individual surgical case. In addition, the number of surgical kits used varies 
  dramatically (see Exhibit C). One issue is Inventory Management and specifically if the six months of supply is too large. This is something 
  that should be analyzed.  Part of the sales representative’s function is to show the surgeon which devices to use.  In addition, if the surgeon
  is using a new kit, the sales representative will show him or her how to use it with a patient.
  
  After assembly, the surgical kits are sterilized.   While other manufacturers do this in-house or let the distributor handle sterilization
  altogether, MTC uses an off-site sterilization service provider.  Some manufacturers even enable the product to be sterilized by their distributor,
  but then have to ensure this step is completed in order to satisfy their own Quality Assurance department
 -  When sterilized off-site, the surgery kits are then sent back to the manufacturer, 
  before they are shipped out to the next tier in the supply chain.  The one-way transit time from the
  -manufacturer to the sterilization provider is on average 48 hours and the sterilization takes usually 24 hours.
  There are two choices on how a
  manufacturer can route its products, either to a medical surgical distributor or by using their own 3PL.  Using a 3PL allows the manufacturer to 
  control their product all the way to the final customer, but there are several efficiencies that can be gained by using a distributor. 
  Amongst the advantages, manufacturers have is that they are not responsible for the inventory and they can reduce their inventory outstanding 
  and they can recognize revenue much quicker.
  
  Some manufacturers route devices through multiple DCs. For example, devices flow to a Central Distribution Center, then to a Regional 
  Distribution Center before being delivered to a health system’s central supply distribution center or individual hospitals.  Others, like MTC, 
  utilize loaner offices and branch offices rather than regional distribution centers.  Their devices often are delivered directly to the 
  Operating Room by sales representatives, bypassing Central Receiving and hospital storage facilities (Central Supply / Materials Management). 
  Unused instruments and devices are shipped back into the distribution network, where the kits are replenished, re-sterilized and shipped back
  to another hospital.


Outline your suggestions as to possible improvement you would suggest to this product flow. 

What do you want to change? 
In house the sterilization procedures -120 hours in total time to hospital. 

What do you think the changes would improve?
Less time in transit, less money spent on transport, fuel, holding inventory. 

How do you think the improvements will result in positive financial outcomes?
Increased upfront cost of building our own inhouse sterilization procedures, reduced transportation and inventory holding costs.

One each of these points above, please be as specific as possible.
