Next Steps

After getting her marching orders at the MTC Board  of Director’s meeting, Chris Evert moved quickly.  She conducted a  working session with their 
major distributor, Bishop Health, on how to  streamline the relationship and save cost; hoping to make up most of the  loss in revenues caused by
the tax.  Her counterpart, Stefanie Graf,  the Director of Purchasing at Bishop, offered up several strategies.   First, they both agreed, that if
the law would get repealed, that would  be the easiest way out.  So, one strategy might be to ramp up their  lobbying efforts, especially in the 
Republican-controlled Congress, and  hope for a legislative change.  The impact of this change would  eventually change the landscape of the
overall industry, however in the  short run, the entire ACA was working its way through the judicial  branch in the U.S. courts and the challenges
brought by the various  cases might even get argued in front of the Supreme Court in 2015.  But  this would essentially be just hoping for the
problem to fix itself, but  inaction is not something they cannot afford.

As Evert returned  to her office after a day of meetings, he wondered what the supply chain  for MTC should look like.  There were several issues
with the current  supply chain, as he saw it.  First, the off-site sterilization was  adding not only time to the supply chain, but also
introducing multiple  touch points and the need for more transportation.  Second, because of  the multiple touch points throughout the supply 
chain, transportation  and warehousing were controlled by multiple companies, which created  potential safety issues.  Third, and for many the most
pressing issue,  was the issue of sales representatives themselves.  Sales representative  commissions were adding direct cost to the final 
product.  By some  estimates, sales, general, and administrative expenses accounted for  around 45% of revenue in 2014 and the largest driver was
these sales  commissions.  While having a representative call on surgeons certainly  seemed like a logical idea, a number of people in the firm 
argued for  the elimination of this type of sales model.  Although there might be a  sales advantage, it just seemed to Evert that the practice of 
carrying  inventory into the operating room seemed quite outdated and inefficient.   The financial statements for MTC are shown in Exhibit D.

Another  option that Medical Technologies was considering was to move away from  the Distributor model to a direct model, by using a Third Party 
Logistics (3PL) provider.  Changing channels was not an easy option, but  the advantage would be that MTC could increase the sales price they 
received since they would sell at retail versus wholesale.  It would,  however require MTC to take responsibility for the activities that the 
distributor was once performing. Another requirement would be to  convince the powerful hospital group purchasing organizations (GPOs) to  add
their products directly to their catalog without going through a  distributor.  This would not be an easy task either and it is  questionable
what impact if would have on their competitive position.

Finally,  Evert tackled the issue of why the salespeople commanded such very high  compensation.  The model was skewed towards performance, as
sales  compensation consisted primarily of high commissions, however this did  cut deeply into the profits of the firm.  John McEnroe, the Vice 
President of Sales was livid when they met to talk about the sales  model.  McEnroe told Evert point blank that he didn’t understand what it  
took to sell the company’s products and that nobody else in the  industry was using a different model.  Some of their competitors are in a  
very strong financial position, as shown in Exhibit D, while others  were struggling.  The question is how to take advantage of possible 
weaknesses, while not opening up their own.   He suggested that Evert  take a look at the input prices and rationalize the distribution 
network.  Evert was not necessarily convinced, but he knew that any  changes to the sales representative model would require a solid 
financial analysis.

Another popular method of improving efficiency  is implementing low unit of measure (LUM) Lean/JIT systems between  distributors and hospitals.
“Distributors are more willing to shift from  the traditional bulk model of shipping inventory in full-case  quantities of use. Distributors in
essence assume responsibility for  holding inventory and replenishing individual locations. The hospital is  still responsible for placing the
purchase orders but they are  transmitted by individual departments, and the material is delivered  directly to the ward, bypassing the storage
room. Under this model,  inventory expenses can be more aligned with clinical demand”.  This and  other changes would have to happen with the
consent of the hospitals  value analysis teams (VATs) or committees (VACs) which include  physicians, business managers, clinical managers, and 
other leaders to  make policy decisions.

The placement of RFID tags in the field  warehouses or offices had also been problematic as that had created an  additional step in the workflow
of the supply chain.  However, in  considering this, it brought up the broader issue of where specific  tasks in the supply chain should be 
performed.  It is questionable  whether each task is performed at the best location in the supply chain.   Inventory management in the medical 
device industry at large is a  serious impediment to efficiency.  Devices are stored in several  locations throughout the network of the
manufacturer, 3PLs,  distributors, and at various locations in the hospitals, for example  operating rooms, and surgical pods.  This however,
makes inventory  tracking and control significantly more difficult.  In addition, the  inventory management systems in hospitals are often
inadequate for  maintaining consistently efficient levels of supply.

The fact that  most surgical kits are hand-carried into the operating room had long  troubled Evert.  Similarly to other medical supplies,
the surgical kits  could be stored in “smart kiosks” at the hospital locations, which would  enable them to effectively control the inventory 
and it would reduce  the need for the hospital to carry the inventory themselves.  A member  of the surgical staff could then check out and pay 
for the kit when  necessary and it would remove a lot of touch points.  In emergencies,  there would be a button to press to bypass the checkout
process, however  most procedures were scheduled and inventory should remain accounted  for, if the hospital staff would follow the protocol for
checking out  the product. In addition, kiosk distribution would enable the  manufacturer to have complete visibility into the “last mile” of 
the  supply chain.  Sales representatives would only be required to maintain  the relationship with the surgeons and worry less about inventory 
control.  Evert was not sure of the barriers that he would encounter,  but she was sure that her colleague John McEnroe would fight him as hard 
as he could and the reaction of the hospitals would remain unclear as  well.  Regardless of the solution Evert recommends for MTC, there is a 
lot of work ahead of him.

