The Medical Devices Supply Chain at MTC
The Medical Devices supply chain for MTC consists of several major players: Manufacturers, Medical Surgical Distributors and/or Third Party
Logistics (3PL) Firms, and Hospitals.  The flow of products from the manufacturing plant to the hospital operating room usually takes devices 
through a lengthy path.  The manufacturers assemble the products usually in lots of 7,200 per week.  Each surgical kit contains hundreds of
individual parts that may be used by the surgeon.  Often, it is not possible to predict which items will be needed in an individual surgical case.
In addition, the number of surgical kits used varies dramatically (see Exhibit C). One issue is Inventory Management and specifically if the six
months of supply is too large. This is something that should be analyzed.  Part of the sales representative’s function is to show the surgeon which
devices to use.  In addition, if the surgeon is using a new kit, the sales representative will show him or her how to use it with a patient.

After assembly, the surgical kits are sterilized.   While other manufacturers do this in-house or let the distributor handle sterilization 
altogether, MTC uses an off-site sterilization service provider.  Some manufacturers even enable the product to be sterilized by their distributor,
but then have to ensure this step is completed in order to satisfy their own Quality Assurance department.  When sterilized off-site, the surgery 
kits are then sent back to the manufacturer, before they are shipped out to the next tier in the supply chain.  The one-way transit time from the 
manufacturer to the sterilization provider is on average 48 hours and the sterilization takes usually 24 hours.  There are two choices on how a 
manufacturer can route its products, either to a medical surgical distributor or by using their own 3PL.  Using a 3PL allows the manufacturer to 
control their product all the way to the final customer, but there are several efficiencies that can be gained by using a distributor.  Amongst the
advantages, manufacturers have is that they are not responsible for the inventory and they can reduce their inventory outstanding and they can 
recognize revenue much quicker.

The distributors or 3PLs usually perform two functions: at the first level, they provide a central distribution function, and at the second level,
to pre-position inventory near the hospital at a branch or loaner office location.  In some cases the second level distribution is performed by the
salesperson themselves.  They often carry trunk stock in their company-provided vehicles.  This increases the amount of inventory in the supply 
chain significantly.  The transfer of inventory typically occurs on a weekly basis, but emergency replenishments are possible as needed to fill
demand.  Another issue is the use of RFID tags, which are used to streamline the supply chain.  The tags may be attached to the products at either 
the first or the second-tier distribution points.

Some manufacturers route devices through multiple DCs. For example, devices flow to a Central Distribution Center, then to a Regional Distribution 
Center before being delivered to a health system’s central supply distribution center or individual hospitals.  Others, like MTC, utilize loaner
offices and branch offices rather than regional distribution centers.  Their devices often are delivered directly to the Operating Room by sales
representatives, bypassing Central Receiving and hospital storage facilities (Central Supply / Materials Management).  Unused instruments and 
devices are shipped back into the distribution network, where the kits are replenished, re-sterilized and shipped back to another hospital.
