The Key Decision-Makers in the Medical Devices Supply Chain
The major objective of MTC’s management team is to satisfy the requirements of the firm’s investors and maintain and increase profitability of the
firm overall.  The medical device tax is a serious impediment to this mandate.  Peter Sampras and the rest of the senior leadership are willing to 
make considerable changes to the supply chain to increase efficiency to the point that they do not have adverse effects.  They believe that the 
current system is working well, but they also know that something has to be done.

Evert views the sales representatives as adding value in a fragmented way.  While they maintain the relationships with the surgeons, who are
generally viewed as the major driver of which surgical kit to use, they are also highly-trained individuals, who spend considerable time in the
operating rooms assisting the surgeons during cases.  They are compensated very well and their commissions add substantial cost to the product, but
they also provide a competitive advantage through their relationships with the surgeons, which is of immeasurable value.  The average sales 
representative earns a total salary of around $300,000, with some top earners receiving more than $1,000,000 per year. John McEnroe, the vice 
president of sales does not want to see the model changed at all, but he knows there are many of his colleagues that believe the solution to the 
profitability issue is to remove sales representatives entirely.

The intermediaries in the supply chain, medical surgical supply distributors, rely on the fact that hospitals prefer buying from one large 
distributor that carries a full line of medical supplies.  While a manufacturer could build a distribution network with the help of a specialized
3PL, they have to overcome the fact that hospitals prefer working with distributors.  But if they were able to lower the selling cost enough to 
warrant a change, they might be able to convince the hospitals to switch.

Hospital Group Purchasing Organizations (GPOs) bundle the purchases of their hospital members which enable them to reduce their costs.  The group
pools the negotiating and buying power of multiple health care providers which helps hospitals purchase supplies at a lower cost.  These
organizations can leverage the large combined spend and match the power of large dominant manufacturers of medical supplies.  The major objective
of these groups is to reduce cost, and any changes that can lower the costs of products will be welcome.

Surgeons have an important position in the medical devices supply chain because they are powerful decision-makers in the supply chain.  If a doctor
believes that a certain surgical device or kit should be used, they can make the case to the hospital administration to purchase it for their 
surgical cases regardless of whether or not the SKU is on the GPO contract.  These are known as Physician Preference Items (PPIs).  It is generally 
known that about 80% of surgeries are scheduled routine surgeries, using standard surgical kits.  The remaining 20% of cases require special kits
and often the advice of the sales representative.  In general, the surgeons prefer working closely with their sales representatives for the first 
few surgeries, until they master the intricacies of the new device.

Finally, there are hospital administrators, who are responsible for managing costs for the hospital.  As discussed, in light of the new ACA,
there is strong pressure for hospitals to lower costs.  Given the reduced and redesigned reimbursement methodologies facing hospitals, pressure 
to reduce costs has never been greater.  Hospital administrators have to balance the requirements of the surgeons, who have to receive all the 
tools necessary to perform their surgical cases with the overall financial well-being of the entire organization.  The hospital administration has
a number of challenges, some of which are outlined in the New Jersey Commission on Rationalizing Health Care Resources 2008 report (p. 118) which
reads, “…Physicians have the primary role in determining what resources are utilized within the hospital… Yet the hospital is financially liable
for many of these decisions and currently has few tools at its disposal to address overutilization of resources by physicians. The Commission
heard a presentation from a consultant where costs for similar risk patients with a similar diagnosis varied by a magnitude of five depending on 
the physician caring for the patient within a given hospital.” For these reasons, medical device manufacturers have historically aggressively 
marketed to physicians with the aim of indirectly influencing hospital purchases through their physician champions. Today, hospitals are 
implementing cross-functional value analysis teams or committees often lead by the hospital’s supply chain function and comprised of physicians,
business managers, and clinical staff to evaluate suppliers (and GPO) contracts and approve/deny requests for ‘off-contract’ purchases. The 
percentage of ‘on-contract’ purchases has become an important supply chain metric in leading hospitals.    


