Week 1
What is Supply Chain Strategy
In this module you will be introduced to the business case that you will work on over the duration of this course. The goal of this part is to determine the overall direction of your improvement efforts. After completing this module, you will be able to recognize the issues in a business better as well as customize your specific recommendations in the remainder of the course.

2 videos, 2 readings
Video: What is Supply Chain Management Strategy?
Reading: Is this course for me?
Discussion Prompt: Introductions
Reading: The Case
Video: How to Save 2.3% of Revenue
Discussion Prompt: What is the target and how do we get there?

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: We have a problem!
Week 2
Logistics at MTC
In this module, you are going to examine the logistics challenges that MTC faces. In addition to examining the current state of the company's logistics, you will make recommendations to improve the company's logistics. After completing this module, you will have demonstrated the ability to recognize a company's logistical challenges and make appropriate recommendations to overcome those issues.

7 videos, 5 readings
Video: Logistics at MTC
Reading: Logistics Challenges
Reading: The Medical Devices Supply Chain at MTC
Reading: The Key Decision-Makers in the Medical Devices Supply Chain
Reading: Next Steps
Reading: Current Industry Issues
Video: How much inventory do we need?
Video: When to order inventory?
Video: How do you build a logistics network?
Video: Facilities: How many and where?
Video: Factors Influencing Logistics Networks
Video: Logistics Customer Service
Discussion Prompt: Possible Logistics Solutions

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Logistics Solutions
Week 3
Operations at MTC
In this module, you are going to examine the operations challenges that MTC faces. In addition to examining the current state of the company's operations, you will make recommendations to improve the company's flow of products to the customers. After completing this module, you will have demonstrated the ability to recognize a company's operational challenges and make appropriate recommendations to overcome those issues.

5 videos, 4 readings
Video: Operations at MTC
Reading: Operations at Challenges
Reading: The Medical Devices Supply Chain
Reading: The Key Decision-Makers in the Medical Devices Supply Chain
Reading: Next Steps
Video: Lean Operations
Video: Why do companies need warehouses?
Video: How should we design a warehouse?
Video: Lean Inventory
Discussion Prompt: Possible Operations Solutions

Show lessweek 3 material
Graded: Operations Solutions
Week 4
Planning at MTC
In this module, you are going to examine the planning challenges that MTC faces. In addition to examining the current state of the company's demand planning and fulfillment, you will make recommendations to improve the company's forecasting. After completing this module, you will have demonstrated the ability to recognize a company's forecasting and demand planning challenges and make appropriate recommendations to overcome those issues.

6 videos, 5 readings
Video: Planning at MTC
Reading: Planning Challenges
Reading: The Medical Devices Supply Chain
Reading: The Key Decision-Makers in the Medical Devices Supply Chain
Reading: Next Steps
Reading: Exhibit C
Video: Naive Forecast
Video: Cumulative Mean Forecast
Video: Forecast Accuracy
Video: Moving Average
Video: Exponential Smoothing
Discussion Prompt: Possible Planning Solutions

Show lessweek 4 material
Graded: Planning Solutions
Week 5
Sourcing at MTC
In this module, you are going to examine the sourcing challenges that MTC faces. In addition to examining the current state of the company's procurement activities, you will make recommendations to improve the company's relationships with its suppliers as well as their ability to take advantage of closer relationships with its customers. After completing this module, you will have demonstrated the ability to recognize a company's sourcing challenges and make appropriate recommendations to overcome those issues.

Show less
6 videos, 5 readings
Video: Sourcing at MTC
Reading: Sourcing Challenges
Reading: The Medical Devices Supply Chain at MTC
Reading: Key Decision-Makers in the Medical Devices Supply Chain
Reading: Current Issues
Reading: Next Steps
Video: Purchasing
Video: Procurement
Video: Supply Management
Video: Strategic Sourcing
Video: Make versus Buy
Discussion Prompt: Possible Sourcing Solutions

Show lessweek 5 material
Graded: Sourcing Solutions
Week 6
The Solution
In this module, you are going to craft a cumulative presentation of all your recommendations. After completing this module, you will have demonstrated the ability to present a cohesive and logical argument to support your recommendations.
2 videos, 1 reading
Reading: Now, convince me that you are right...
Discussion Prompt: Persuasive Presentation Tips
Video: Solution Example
Video: Thank you for Learning with me!

Show lessweek 6 material
Graded: Crafting a Persuasive Strategy Presentation
