Working with Python Scripts
1 hour 30 minutes
Free
Introduction
Welcome to your first lab on fixing problems in Python. In this lab, you'll first have to fix an incorrect Python script. This includes:

Fixing the file permissions to make it executable.
Fixing a bug in the code.
After that, you'll write your own Python module and use it from the original script.

You'll have 90 minutes to complete this lab.

Start the lab
You'll need to start the lab before you can access the materials in the virtual machine OS. To do this, click the green “Start Lab” button at the top of the screen.

Note: For this lab you are going to access the Linux VM through your local SSH Client, and not use the Google Console (Open GCP Console button is not available for this lab).
Start Lab

After you click the “Start Lab” button, you will see all the SSH connection details on the left-hand side of your screen. You should have a screen that looks like this:

Connection details

Accessing the virtual machine
Please find one of the three relevant options below based on your device's operating system.

Note: Working with Qwiklabs may be similar to the work you'd perform as an IT Support Specialist; you'll be interfacing with a cutting-edge technology that requires multiple steps to access, and perhaps healthy doses of patience and persistence(!). You'll also be using SSH to enter the labs -- a critical skill in IT Support that you’ll be able to practice through the labs.
Option 1: Windows Users: Connecting to your VM
In this section, you will use the PuTTY Secure Shell (SSH) client and your VM’s External IP address to connect.

Download your PPK key file

You can download the VM’s private key file in the PuTTY-compatible PPK format from the Qwiklabs Start Lab page. Click on Download PPK.

PPK

Connect to your VM using SSH and PuTTY

You can download Putty from here

In the Host Name (or IP address) box, enter username@external_ip_address.

Note: Replace username and external_ip_address with values provided in the lab.
Putty_1

In the Category list, expand SSH.

Click Auth (don’t expand it).

In the Private key file for authentication box, browse to the PPK file that you downloaded and double-click it.

Click on the Open button.

Note: PPK file is to be imported into PuTTY tool using the Browse option available in it. It should not be opened directly but only to be used in PuTTY.
Putty_2

Click Yes when prompted to allow a first connection to this remote SSH server. Because you are using a key pair for authentication, you will not be prompted for a password.
Common issues

If PuTTY fails to connect to your Linux VM, verify that:

You entered <username>@<external ip address> in PuTTY.

You downloaded the fresh new PPK file for this lab from Qwiklabs.

You are using the downloaded PPK file in PuTTY.

Option 2: OSX and Linux users: Connecting to your VM via SSH
Download your VM’s private key file.

You can download the private key file in PEM format from the Qwiklabs Start Lab page. Click on Download PEM.

PEM

Connect to the VM using the local Terminal application

A terminal is a program which provides a text-based interface for typing commands. Here you will use your terminal as an SSH client to connect with lab provided Linux VM.

Open the Terminal application.

To open the terminal in Linux use the shortcut key Ctrl+Alt+t.

To open terminal in Mac (OSX) enter cmd + space and search for terminal.

Enter the following commands.

Note: Substitute the path/filename for the PEM file you downloaded, username and External IP Address.
You will most likely find the PEM file in Downloads. If you have not changed the download settings of your system, then the path of the PEM key will be ~/Downloads/qwikLABS-XXXXX.pem

chmod 600 ~/Downloads/qwikLABS-XXXXX.pem
Copied!
ssh -i ~/Downloads/qwikLABS-XXXXX.pem username@External Ip Address
Copied!
SSH

Option 3: Chrome OS users: Connecting to your VM via SSH
Note: Make sure you are not in Incognito/Private mode while launching the application.
Download your VM’s private key file.

You can download the private key file in PEM format from the Qwiklabs Start Lab page. Click on Download PEM.

PEM

Connect to your VM

Add Secure Shell from here to your Chrome browser.

Open the Secure Shell app and click on [New Connection].

new-connection-button

In the username section, enter the username given in the Connection Details Panel of the lab. And for the hostname section, enter the external IP of your VM instance that is mentioned in the Connection Details Panel of the lab.

username-hostname-fields

In the Identity section, import the downloaded PEM key by clicking on the Import… button beside the field. Choose your PEM key and click on the OPEN button.

Note: If the key is still not available after importing it, refresh the application, and select it from the Identity drop-down menu.
Once your key is uploaded, click on the [ENTER] Connect button below.

import-button

For any prompts, type yes to continue.

You have now successfully connected to your Linux VM.

You're now ready to continue with the lab!

Fix file permissions
We have a python script ready for you. From your home directory (~), use the following command to navigate to the scripts directory:

cd scripts
Copied!
List the files to find the script using the following command:

ls
Copied!
To view the contents of this file, enter the following command:

cat health_checks.py
Copied!
This Python file consists of a script to check disk and cpu usage. You can see shutil and psutil modules are imported here.

The shutil module offers a number of high-level operations on files and collections of files. In particular, it provides functions that support file copying and removal. It comes under Python's standard utility modules. disk_usage() method is used to get disk usage statistics of the given path. This method returns a named tuple with the attributes total, used, and free. The total attribute represents the total amount of space, the used attribute represents the amount of used space, and the free attribute represents the amount of available space, in bytes.

psutil (Python system and process utilities) is a cross-platform library for retrieving information on the processes currently running and system utilization (CPU, memory, disks, network, sensors) in Python. It's useful mainly for system monitoring, profiling, limiting process resources, and managing running processes. cpu_percent() returns a float showing the current system-wide CPU use as a percentage. When the interval is 0.0 or None (default), the function compares process times to system CPU times elapsed since the last call, returning immediately (non-blocking). That means that the first time it's called it will return a meaningful 0.0 value. When the interval is > 0.0, the function compares process times to system CPU times elapsed before and after the interval (blocking).

This script begins with a line containing the #! character combination, which is commonly called hash bang or shebang and continues with the path to the interpreter.

#!/usr/bin/env python3 uses the operating system env command, which locates and executes Python by searching the PATH environment variable. Unlike Windows, the Python interpreter is usually already in the $PATH variable on linux, so you don't have to add it.

Now that you understand what the script does, and the functions within it, let's run the Python file using the following command:

./health_checks.py
Copied!
We got a permission denied error.

9cf4777b361c4ae2.png

This is because the above command tries to run your script directly as a program. The program is parsed by the interpreter specified in the first line of the script, i.e. shebang. If the kernel finds that the first two bytes are #! it uses the rest of the line as an interpreter and passes the file as an argument. So, to do this, the file needs to have execute permission.

To run this file, we need it to have execute permission (x). Let's update the file permissions and then try running the file. Use the following command to add execute permission to the file:

sudo chmod +x health_checks.py
Copied!
Now try running the file again by using the following command:

./health_checks.py
Copied!
This time, the output shows "ERROR".

55da3ba2d7faeb87.png

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Success: Fix file permissions.
Fix file permissions
Success: Fix file permissions.

Debug the issue
The Python script returns ERROR only if there's not enough disk usage or CPU usage. Try to debug this issue.

Hint: The problem is that the function check_cpu_usage should return true if the CPU usage is less than 75%, but in this case, it returns false.
Use a nano editor to open the file health_checks.py.

nano health_checks.py
Copied!
Make the necessary changes now. And once the changes are done, save the file by clicking Ctrl-o, enter key and Ctrl-x.

Once you have debugged the issue, try running the file again by using the command:

./health_checks.py
Copied!
This time, if the script is correct, the output should be "Everything ok".

3787ef9ec72912c8.png

Congratulations! You fixed the script!

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Success: Debug the issue
Debug the issue
Success: Debug the issue

Create a new Python module
In this section, you are going to write a Python module. A module is a file containing Python definitions and statements. The file name is the module name with the suffix .py appended.

The module you are going to write will be used to test the network connections. We will guide you step by step through this process. Throughout the lab, we will refer to this module as the network module.

Let's start writing this network module. Since, the network module will check whether the network is correctly configured on the computer, we will use the requests module.

What is the requests module?
Requests is a Python module that you can use to send all kinds of HTTP requests. It's an easy-to-use library with a lot of features ranging from passing parameters in URLs to sending custom headers and SSL verification. You can add headers, form data, multi-part files, and parameters with simple Python dictionaries.You can then access the response data using the same request.

To use the requests module, you first need to install it. Use the following command to install the request module. If you receive any prompts, continue by clicking Y.

sudo apt install python3-requests
Copied!
Create a file named network.py. The file should be created in the same directory as health_checks.py, i.e., scripts. If you are not present in the scripts directory, navigate to the scripts directory first and then create the file.

cd ~/scripts
Copied!
Use nano editor to create a new file network.py:

nano network.py
Copied!
Add a shebang line to define where the interpreter is located. In this case, the shebang line would be /usr/bin/env python3.

#!/usr/bin/env python3
Copied!
Import the request module into the file using the import statements.

import requests
Copied!
To check whether the local host is correctly configured, we use the socket module.

Now, import the socket module.

import socket
Copied!
Next, write a function check_localhost, which checks whether the local host is correctly configured. We do this by calling the gethostbyname within the function.

localhost = socket.gethostbyname('localhost')
Copied!
The above function translates a host name to IPv4 address format. Pass the parameter localhost to the function gethostbyname. The result for this function should be 127.0.0.1.

Edit the function check_localhost so that it returns true if the function returns 127.0.0.1.

Now, we will write another function called check_connectivity. This checks whether the computer can make successful calls to the internet.

A request is when you ping a website for information. The Requests library is designed for this task. You will use the request module for this, and call the GET method by passing http://www.google.com as the parameter.

request = requests.get("http://www.google.com")
Copied!
This returns the website's status code. This status code is an integer value. Now, assign the result to a response variable and check the status_code attribute of that variable. It should return 200.

Edit the function check_connectivity so that it returns true if the function returns 200 status_code.

Once you have finished editing the file, press Ctrl-o, Enter, and Ctrl-x to exit.

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Success: Created a python module.
Write a python module
Success: Created a python module.

Use the Python module
Now, you’re going to re-edit the file health_checks.py to make it call the checks in the network module. For this, you will need to import the module into health_checks.py script.

To do this, open the script health_checks.py

nano health_checks.py
Copied!
Now import network module at the beginning of the file.

from network import *
Copied!
Call the checks to the network module by adding an elif clause after the if clause in the script health_checks.py.

Replace the else part with an elif clause.

elif check_localhost() and check_connectivity():
    print("Everything ok")
Copied!
Add an else part at the end of the file.

else:
    print("Network checks failed")
Copied!
Once you have completed editing the file, press Ctrl-o, Enter, and Ctrl-x to exit.

Now, run the file.

./health_checks.py
Copied!
It should return "Everything ok".

3787ef9ec72912c8.png

Click Check my progress to verify the objective.
Success: Implemented the python module.
Use the python module
Success: Implemented the python module.

Congratulations!
You've successfully fixed an incorrect Python script, created a new Python module, and used it in the original script. These are common tasks for IT support roles, and mastering the skills you've practiced in this lab will greatly help you in your IT career. You can now close the RDP/SSH window, manually end the lab, and continue onto the next module. This lab will automatically end when the time runs out.

End your lab
