Windows 10 and 11 Feature Matrix:
Windows 10 and 11 are two operating systems IT Professionals work with. 
This reading describes the differences between them and highlights features that are important to IT. 
Windows 11 was released more recently and has higher system requirements than Windows 10. 
Professionals will still work with Windows 10 often, as many companies still use it.

The primary difference between the two operating systems is aesthetic. Windows 11’s design is more minimal, corners have been rounded,
and colors are pastel. Another difference is in Windows 10, the start menu and taskbar are in the bottom left corner.
In Windows 11, the start menu and taskbar are centered along the bottom.

Features:
Apps: In Windows 10, apps can only be added from the Windows Store or installed manually.
In Windows 11, Android apps can also be added natively. 

Virtual desktop: In Windows 10 it is possible to use Virtual Desktops, but it is unintuitive to set up.
In Windows 11, the support for virtual desktops is more user-friendly making it easy to set up different desktops for work and personal use. 

Teams: In Windows 10, Teams is included in the operating system, but defaults to Skype for video conferencing.
In Windows 11, Teams is featured prominently and incorporated into the taskbar and no longer defaults to Skype for video conferencing. 

Widgets: In Windows 10, there are desktop gadgets similar to widgets that can be added to the start menu.
In Windows 11, widgets can be accessed from the taskbar directly.

Touch and pen: Windows 11 has added more features for touch and pen use on supported devices, including vibration features for pens. 

Random Access Memory (RAM) Support Limitations: In Windows 10, the lowest RAM (Random Access Memory) requirements are 1GB for 32-bit versions 
and 2GB for 64-bit versions. In Windows 11, the base requirement is 4GB of RAM.

Services and settings
Domain access: Joining a domain, a centrally administered group of computers, functions the same in Windows 10 and 11.
A user can quickly join a domain from the “System Properties” window.

Workgroup access: Joining a workgroup, a group of computers on the same Local Area Network (LAN) with shared access and responsibilities,
also functions the same in Windows 10 and 11. A user can quickly join a workgroup from the “System Properties” window.

Group Policy Settings (Gpedit.msc): Editing Group Policies (with Gpedit.msc) locally or using Active Directory is largely unchanged.
Note that Gpedit.msc is not available in Home licenses of Windows.

Remote Desktop Protocol: The Remote Desktop tool, used for connecting to the desktop of a different computer over a network connection,
is largely unchanged between Windows versions. Note that to use a Remote Desktop Server, the server machine needs to be running at least the 
Pro edition of Windows. 

Bitlocker: Bitlocker, a drive encryption tool included with Windows, is largely unchanged. Note that Bitlocker is only available for Pro
and Enterprise licenses of Windows.

Key takeaways
Operating systems like Windows 10 and Windows 11 are constantly changing and evolving. As an IT professional, you may be required to
maintain two or more versions of an operating system at the same time. IT professionals need to stay on top of changes and new development to
ensure they can support their users. 

Windows 10 and Windows 11 primary difference is aesthetic. 

Windows 11 updated and added new features to make it simpler to access or use apps services, and settings. 
