Step 1
Set up your HTML with the DOCTYPE, html indicating this document is in English, head, and body elements.
Give your head element the appropriate meta elements for the charset and viewport, a title element with an appropriate title, and a link element for your stylesheet.\\\\

Step 2
Within your body element, nest a section element within a main element.

Step 3
Within your section element, add an h1 element with a nested span element.

Step 4
Screen readers announce HTML elements based on the document flow.
We will eventually want the balance sheet to have a heading of "Balance Sheet" and a subheading of "AcmeWidgetCorp". 
However, this order does not make sense if announced by a screen reader.
Give your existing span the class attribute set to flex, and add two span elements within it. Give the first the text AcmeWidgetCorp.
Give the second the text Balance Sheet. You will use CSS to reverse the order of the text on the page, but the HTML order will make more sense for a screen reader.

Step 5
Below your h1 element, create a div element. Give it an id attribute set to years. 
You want this particular element to be hidden from screen readers, so give it the aria-hidden attribute set to true.

Step 6
Within your div element, add three span elements. Give each of them a class attribute set to year, and add the following text (in order): 2019, 2020, and 2021.

Step 7
Below your existing div element, add a new div element with a class set to table-wrap. This will be the container for your tables.
Within that, add three table elements. You will be using CSS to style these into a single table, 
but using separate tables will help screen readers understand the document flow.

Step 8
HTML tables use the caption element to describe what the table is about. 
The caption element should always be the first child of a table, but can be positioned with the caption-side CSS property.
Add a caption element to your first table, and give it the text Assets.

Step 9
The thead and tbody elements are used to indicate which portion of your table is the header, and which portion contains the primary data or content.
Add a thead and tbody to your first table, below the caption element.

Step 10
The tr element is used to indicate a table row. Add a tr element within your thead element. In your new tr element, add a td element, followed by three th elements.
The td element indicates a data cell, while the th element indicates a header cell.

Step 11
Within each of your new th elements, nest a span element with the class set to sr-only year. Give them the following text (in order): 2019, 2020, and 2021.
Give your third th element the class attribute set to current.
Leave the td element empty. This element exists only to ensure your table has a four-column layout and associate the headers with the correct columns.

Step 12
Within your tbody element, add four tr elements. Give the first three a class attribute set to data, and the fourth a class attribute set to total.

Step 13
In your first tr, add a th element with the text Cash This is the cash we currently have on hand..
Wrap all of that text except Cash in a span element with the class set to description.
Following that, add three td elements with the following text (in order): $25, $30, $28. Give the third td element a class attribute set to current.

Step 14
In your second tr element, add a th element with the text Checking Our primary transactional account.. Wrap that text, except for Checking ,
in a span element with the class attribute set to description.
Following that, add three td elements with the following text (in order): $54, $56, $53. Give the third td element a class attribute set to current.

Step 15
In your third tr element, add a th element with the text Savings Funds set aside for emergencies.. Wrap that text, except for Savings , 
in a span element with the class attribute set to description.
Following that, add three td elements with the following text (in order): $500, $650, $728. Give the third td element a class attribute set to current.

Step 16
In your fourth tr element, add a th element with the text Total Assets. Wrap the text Assets in a span element with the class attribute set to sr-only.
Following that, add three td elements with the following text (in order): $579, $736, $809. Give the third td element a class attribute set to current.

Step 17
Time to move on to your second table. Start by giving it a caption element set to Liabilities. Then add your thead and tbody.

Step 18
Within your thead, add a tr. Inside that, add a td and three th elements.

Step 19
Give each th element a span element with the class set to sr-only and the following text, in order: 2019, 2020, and 2021.

Step 20
Within the tbody element, add four tr elements. Give the first three the class attribute set to data, and the fourth the class attribute set to total.

Step 21
Within the first tr, add a th element with the text Loans The outstanding balance on our startup loan.. Wrap that text, except for Loans , 
within a span element with the class set to description.
Add three td elements below that, and give them the following text, in order: $500, $250, and $0. Give the third td element a class set to current.

Step 22
Within the second tr, add a th element with the text Expenses Annual anticipated expenses, such as payroll.. 
Wrap that text, except for Expenses , within a span element with the class set to description.
Add three td elements below that, and give them the following text, in order: $200, $300, and $400. Give the third td element a class set to current.

Step 23
Within the third tr, add a th element with the text Credit The outstanding balance on our credit card.. 
Wrap that text, except for Credit , within a span element with the class set to description.
Add three td elements below that, and give them the following text, in order: $50, $50, and $75. Give the third td element a class set to current.

Step 24
In your fourth tr element, add a th element with the text Total Liabilities. Wrap the text Liabilities in a span element with the class attribute set to sr-only.
Following that, add three td elements with the following text (in order): $750, $600, $475. Give the third td element a class attribute set to current.

Step 25
For your third table, add a caption with the text Net Worth, and set up a table header and table body.

Step 26
Within your thead, create a tr element. In that, add a td and three th elements. Within each of the th elements,
add a span element with the class set to sr-only and the following text, in order: 2019, 2020, and 2021.

Step 27
Within the tbody, add a tr with the class set to total. In that, add a th with the text Total Net Worth,
and wrap Net Worth in a span with the class set to sr-only.
Then add three td elements, giving the third a class set to current, and giving each the following text: $-171, $136, $334.

Step 28
Time to style your table. Start by resetting the box model. Create an html selector and give it a box-sizing property set to border-box.

Step 29
Create a body selector and give it a font-family property set to sans-serif and a color set to #0a0a23.

Step 30
Before you get too far into your styling, you should make use of the sr-only class. You can use CSS to make elements 
with this class completely hidden from the visual page, but still be announced by screen readers.
The CSS you are about to write is a common set of properties used to ensure elements are completely hidden visually.
The span[class~="sr-only"] selector will select any span element whose class includes sr-only. Create that selector, and give it a border property set to 0.

Step 31
The CSS clip property is used to define the visible portions of an element. 
Set the span[class~="sr-only"] selector to have a clip property of rect(1px, 1px, 1px, 1px).
The clip-path property determines the shape the clip property should take. Set the clip-path property to the value of inset(50%), 
forming the clip-path into a rectangle within the element.

Step 32
Now you need to size these elements down. Give your span[class~="sr-only"] selector a width and height property set to 1px.

Step 33
To prevent the text content from overflowing, give your span[class~="sr-only"] selector an overflow property set to hidden and a white-space property set to nowrap.

Step 34
Finally, you need to take these hidden elements out of the document flow. Give the span[class~="sr-only"] selector a position property set to absolute,
a padding property set to 0, and a margin property set to -1px. This will ensure that not only are they no longer visible, but they are not even within the page view.

Step 35
Time to style your table heading. Create an h1 selector. Give it a max-width property set to 37.25rem, 
a margin property set to 0 auto, and a padding property set to 1.5rem 1.25rem.

Step 36
Target your flex container with an h1 .flex selector. Give it a display property set to flex to enable the flexbox layout.
Then set the flex-direction property to column-reverse - this will display the nested elements from bottom to top. Finally,
set the gap property to 1rem to create some space between the elements.

Step 37
The :first-of-type pseudo-selector is used to target the first element that matches the selector.
Create an h1 .flex span:first-of-type selector to target the first span element in your .flex container. 
Remember that your span elements are reversed, visually, so this will appear to be the second element on the page.
Give your new selector a font-size property of 0.7em to make it look like a sub-heading.

Step 38
The :last-of-type pseudo-selector does the exact opposite - it targets the last element that matches the selector. 
Create an h1 .flex span:last-of-type selector to target the last span in your flex container, 
and give it a font-size property set to 1.2em to make it look like a header.

Step 39
You wrapped your table in a section element - now you can style that to give your table a border. 
Create a section selector, and give it a max-width property set to 40rem for responsive design. Set the margin property to 0 auto to center it,
and set the border property to 2px solid #d0d0d5.

Step 40
The last part of your table heading is your years. Create a #years selector, and enable flexbox. Justify the content to the end of the flex direction, 
and make the element sticky. Fix it to the top of its container with top: 0.

Step 41
Now apply some color to your #years. Make the text #fff and the background #0a0a23.

Step 42
The calc() function is a CSS function that allows you to calculate a value based on other values. For example, 
you can use it to calculate the width of the viewport minus the margin of an element:
.example {
  margin: 10px;
  width: calc(100% - 20px);
}
Give #years a margin of 0 -2px, and a padding set to 0.5rem calc(1.25rem + 2px) 0.5rem 0.

Step 43
Adding position sticky moved the element into its own stack. To ensure your #years element does not get hidden by different stacks, 
add a z-index property set to 999 in the #years rule.

Step 44
Style the text within your #years element by creating a #years span[class] selector. The span[class] syntax will target any span element that has a 
class attribute set, regardless of the attribute's value.
Give your new selector a bold font, a width of 4.5rem, and text aligned to the right.

Step 45
You wrapped your tables in a container with the table-wrap class. Create a selector for that class, and give it a padding set to 0 0.75rem 1.5rem 0.75rem.








































