Automating Real-World Tasks with Python
by Google

About this Course
In the final course, we'll tie together the concepts that you’ve learned up until now. You'll tackle real-world scenarios in Qwiklabs that will challenge you to use multiple skills at once.

First, we'll take a closer look at how to use external Python modules to extend your code's capabilities, and spend some time learning how to use documentation to learn a new module. For example, we'll use the Python Image Library (PIL) to create and modify images. We'll show you some simple examples of how to perform common tasks in the course material, but it will be up to you to explore the module documentation to figure out how to solve specific problems.

Next, we'll show you how to communicate with the world outside of your code! You'll use data serialization to turn in-memory objects into messages that can be sent to other programs. Your program will send messages across the network to Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) offered by other programs. For those times when your code needs to talk to a person instead of a program, you'll also learn to send email messages.

At the end of this course, you’ll be able to take a description of a problem and use your skills to create a solution -- just like you would on the job. In your final capstone project, you'll be given a description of what your customer needs, and it will be up to you to create a program to do it!


 Show less
Basic Info	
Course 6 of 6 in the Google IT Automation with Python Specialization
Level	Beginner
Language	
English, Subtitles: Arabic, French, Uzbek, Portuguese (European), Italian, Vietnamese, German, Russian, Swedish, Burmese, Spanish, Telugu
Volunteer to translate subtitles for this course
How To Pass	Pass all graded assignments to complete the course.
User Ratings	
Average User Rating 4.8
Syllabus
WEEK 1
Manipulating Images
8 readings
Reading: Course Introduction
Reading: Welcome to the Course!
Discussion Prompt: Meet & Greet
Reading: Module 1 Introduction
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt
Reading: Built-In Libraries vs. External Libraries
Reading: What is an API?
Reading: How to Make Sense of an API?
Reading: How to Use PIL for Working With Images
Reading: Project Problem Statement
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt

Show lessweek 1 material
Graded: Qwiklabs Assessment: Scale and convert images using PIL
WEEK 2
Interacting with Web Services
10 readings
Reading: Module 2 Introduction
Reading: Web Applications and Services
Reading: Data Serialization
Reading: Data Serialization Formats
Reading: More About JSON
Reading: The Python Requests Library
Reading: Useful Operations for Python Requests
Reading: HTTP GET and POST Methods
Reading: What is Django?
Reading: Project Problem Statement
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt

Show lessweek 2 material
Graded: Qwiklabs Assessment: Process Text Files with Python Dictionaries and Upload to Running Web Service
WEEK 3
Automatic Output Generation
8 readings
Reading: Module 3 Introduction
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt
Reading: Introduction to Python Email Library
Reading: Adding Attachments
Reading: Sending the Email Through an SMTP Server
Reading: Introduction to Generating PDFs
Reading: Adding Tables to our PDFs
Reading: Adding Graphics to our PDFs
Reading: Project Problem Statement
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt

Show lessweek 3 material
Graded: Qwiklabs Assessment: Automatically Generate a PDF and send it by Email
WEEK 4
Putting It All Together
1 video, 3 readings
Reading: Module 4 Introduction
Reading: Project Problem Statement
Reading: How to Approach the Problem
Discussion Prompt: Discussion Prompt - Your Learner Journey
Ungraded Plugin: Google IT Cert Participant Exit Survey
Video: Outtakes!

Show lessweek 4 material
Graded: Qwiklabs Assessment: Automate updating catalog information
