"Gaslighting isn't real, you're crazy!" -Dr.Acula, Baffled.
"Everything the government does is legal - they make their own laws, if they do violate them, they just rewrite them or ignore them" "Laws are for little people" "We Investigated ourselves, and found no wrongdoing" 
"Rules for thee not for mee" "DO ALL THE THINGS - now they are all illegal - Appeal 2 Govt" -Hippie gone yuppie generasean "Weak men create hard times" - Jboomers, the so called 'men' who created the current hard times. 
JBoomers used govt to enforce a set of morals they themselves never actually possessed - Hypocrites - blaME the victIM - IzeASean - Jboomers are adult children, never once thinking for themselves, they are olders, not elders. 
The IllUSean of power is all they have, Propagandized cradle 2 grave, InfantilizeASean, every (manufactured) problem is met with an appeal 2 govt, learned helplessness, stockholm syndrome, Problem-ReactSean-SoluSean, OverSocialIzeASean
Lol, Lmao - Just ran the numbers - 70k cops, 70k military = 140k total = That's less than 1% for even just the millions of 'new canadians' much less the old stock ones, and they are threatening arrests for bad words? Lol, Lmao.
They are threatening a draft? Lol, Lmao - Write whatever words on paper you want, can you enforce it? After that Covid BS and decades of abuse - Try it. Lol, Lmao. No one will fight for you, against you? Lol, Lmao. 
The world ends not with a bang, not with a whimper, but a Lol, Lmao. I served in the CF I've sean chairforce fatties, aren't canada's finest, underfunded, all tail and no tooth, a work welfare program is threatening us? Lol, Lmao.
I don't think normies are capable of differentiating TV shows from reality, instead of reading a book on WWII they will watch 'Pearl Harbor with matt damon' and be like - welp, I guess that's how it was -.- they are so dumb, it's painful
"You will live to see manmade horrors beyond your comprehension" - Nikola Tesla
"No generation can contract debts greater than may be paid during the course of it's own existence" Thomas Jefferson, Prophesying JBoomers
https://www.colorado.edu/herbst/sites/default/files/attached-files/nov_2_-_constitution.pdf
"Canada is a failed state" - Me
"I will not be the bagholder for your ponzi scheme" - Also me
"Why is the canadian flag a leaf? because the canadian dream is to leave" - me again
"I'm going to give you 3 letters, well, 2, actually. P < P + I. Principal created is less than the Principal + Interest when the debt is created. It can never be paid off. That's it. That's the scam. "-me again again
"DomesticASean vs CivilizeASean - are they civilized or domesticated? so called 'civil' soyciety"
"the sooner you stop viewing them as '"our"' countries, and start viewing them as hostile foreign occupaySeans, the sooner things start to make Seanse."
"The revolusean will not be televised - if '"they"' captured the banks, media, and governments, would you notice? Did you?" - "The counterRevoluSean will not be televised"
"We are in the looting the treasury and hiring foreign mercenaries stage.." "'They' are just flipping the table on their way out --- they'''ve already lost." 
"You aren't voting your way out of a broken system"  "You can't taper a ponzi scheme." - Max Keiser "The entire GD system is fraudulent" - IllegitimaSean - Of the '"People"' by the '"People"' for the '"People"' - '"Our Democracy"'
'The "they voooted for this" types - Nope, not one time was it ever put up for a vote. Politician get's bribed/blackmailed, politician does a thing, voting doesn't matter. You (S)elect a representative every 4 years. We Were Never Asked.
  None of the laws that get passed are ever voooted on by the populace aeffected by them, Noone asked for or wanted millions of indians, yet here they are. Are you going to clean that up? I'm not. Skin in the game vs moral hazard. 
  Canada is unique in that rats are fleeing into a sinking ship, only people who grew up next to the polluted fetid ganges(gangrene) so called holy river would look at canada as a nice place, worth moving too. Kala Pani. New Slave Class. 
  The natives are getting restless? Bring in new natives. Compliant Yes-Men, HofPooDen, Meant to distract from the actual lever pullers. A literal horde, wall of bodies between the aggrieved and the guilty. We can just go around.
Use your ImageinaSean for a few moments, what would happen in a highly population dense area, in -40 degree weather and the power goes out for 3 days? a week? a month? months? Ya'll MF's will be eating eachother. The Walking Dead. 
Hurricane Katrina, countless examples throughout history, the past ~100 years of holding hands and singing kumbaya are the anomaly. Once the food, fuel, and paychecks stop, so does the artificial peace, prepare accordingly.
'that will never happen in current year!' - Let's look towards haiti, barbecue - warlords, with roving cannibal gangs, they don't even have the racial animosity component, hutu's and the tutsi's(cattled gentry propaganda)another example 
I've completely removed the racial component with the above 2 examples, now imagine a group of people(s) who have been fed CRT / 'anti-colonial' propaganda for 30+ years, mao's red gaurd, the social media/drug addicted youths, 
I personally don't want to deal with that, people are tribal, and my supposed so called 'allies' have only done one thing, consistently and regularly betray me at every opportunity when it's politically/socially convenient (always).
I'm seeking higher ground, away from you idiots, enjoy cleaning up your own mess for the first time in your life, I'm going to go hang around the smart people, and laugh from a safe distance, because if you don't, you cry. 
your so called '"representatives"' don't represent you. Just wait until the cops/enforcers finally realize that they aren't getting their penseans, that's when the 'fun' starts. Where did it go? '"Who"' took it?
We're all just going through the MoSeans - waiting for the honking to start. I can't wait to see where '"they"' run to this time, after sanctioning/bombing/looting/poisoning over half the world, small world after all. F(r)IEND vs nME
ImmigrateSean is a DistractSean from the true perpetrators, they want you looking laterally instead of vertically. Sure, they don't help, but '"Who"' let them all in? '"Who"' gave them preferential treatment? Cui Bono? Qui? QUI!?
'The "you won't do sh!t" types are simply trying to instigateSean to AxSean, force your hand while they still have some semblance of legitimaSean, and crush you with full state power, while they have it. further perpetuating it'
  -They are living on literally borrowed time, stolen from the future through odious debts. We literally don't have to lift a finger for it all to collapse, when it does, THEN you can make your moves, It's a mathematical certainty. P<P+I 
"They always need a boogie man, fear is control, unfortunately for them they jabbed the most fearful and ignorant among us, while creating a new purity test further illegitimizeASean every instituSean remaining - vaxcattle authorities."
Catch 22 Vs 2 + 2 = ? The VaxCattle are either too stupid, or too corrupt to tell me what to do, and since everyone who isn't a vaxcattle got purged from all posiseans of authority, there is 0 legitimASean of any authoritah. 
'"Poison the kids to save grandma"' as they inject mystery $cience juice, destroy the economy and print trillions of dollars, over the flu. Not only are they dumb, they are arrogant. I used to ask how it got this bad - never again. 
I have never once in my life sean a succesful protest, they do a temporary retreat at BEST, and come back in with a new law/bill/tax to do the same thing later - totalitarian tiptoe, 2 steps forward, 1 step back -
The protestors get bored/tired/have work - go home - politicSean says platitudes, wait a few months/years, do it again. It's all so tiresome. "let them march all they want, as long as they pay their taxes" -Alexander Haig
'"Quiet Quitting?"' Vs "Inflation Adjusted Work Output" - They pretend to pay us, we pretend to work - If working 40+ hours a week won't even net you a house - why work? InflateSean - Tail end of Ponzi Scheme - Let it burn. 
They don't hate the person who lied to them, they hate the person who tells them the truth. (JBoomers listen to liars criminals and theives for 40+ years and get mad at you for pointing it out) URE CULTure
Who is more at fault? The Liar or the person who beleived the lie? (for decades - with the advent of internet - still ignorant as sh!t - After covid, I'm starting to doubt if most people are even sentient) Tell-A-Vision
Gnostics were right about hylics, J's are right about goyim - they really are that stupid - Cattle produce milk and meat, SubCattle actively work to make my life worse, tyranny, prop up a failed ponzi scheme, and attack me - Not 1 Apology
Even after proven right, after years of suffering, being honorable and standing by my ideas, for years, when everyone was telling me I was wrong, suffering their abuses, derision, mockery, excluSean - Not so funny now, is it? 
Being intelligent is learning from your own mistakes, being wise is learning from the mistakes of others - How many times have I said 'Stupidity should be painful' - It is, just not for the stupid ones - The JBoomers -
Jboomers are so dumb, they cause other people to suffer - and they call this winning - '"if you were smrt like me, you would of invested in at the ground floor of the ponzi scheme in the 70's, sucks to suck, learn2ponzi scrub"'
Offshored Manufacturing, Went off gold standard, literally unpayable debts, your children(if you had them) will grow up to be a hated and resented minority in '"their"' countries, feminism DEI, ponzi finanace, housing(lol, lmao)
  infinite taxes/regulations, inflation, lock the youth in 18-22 years of propaganda indoctrinateSean prison centers, pay for a pensean I'll never receive, pay into a system that has abused you for decades, destroyed 3-4 generaseasns
  CircumsizeASean - branded as cattle - covid - poison the kids to save grandma, oversocialized mindbroken subcattle all unanimously agree with the TV, govt and big pharama, what's wrong with you? Not One Apology - Ever.
  Destroyed the sanctity of marriage, an entire 2? 3? 4? Generaseans growing up in broken homes, married the state, blaME the victIM, not only did you not teach us - what you did teach us was completely wrong - had to relearn everything
  IX XI - Endless wars, millions murdered for false pretenses, trillions stolen, sh!t floats to the top, fail up - you started a civil war and destroyed a country? you get promoted to state dept, 0 institutional legitimacy - Lol, Lmao.
  Not One Held Accountable - Ever. They demand that you take accountability for your actions, name one time that they have ever done the same? They try to enforce a morality they themselves never had and just hope you don't nosetice?
There is no state funded multiethnic palliative MAID nursing home deep or dark enough to ever make up for the crimes and sins of the JBoomers - Enjoy your '"New canadians"' - 
If your parents set you up for success, share it with them. If they set you up for failure, share it with them. Treat others as they have treated you. F = -F
JBoomers society might be burning to ash behind them, but their weekly ritual of mowing the lawn will somehow make them think that '"I'm doing my part"' - We don't even have functional gardens anymore, maintaining your dead sterile
  roundup cancer riddled lawn for no other purpose than the government will charge you money and what would your fellow brainwashed compatriots think if you don't is the perfect allegory for JBoomer existance- meaningless and superficial
    Not even in the vein of "first we must tend to our own gardens"-Voltaire -JBoomer gardens are ultimately without purpose other than to stroke their vain ego 'that's what your supposed to do' and create comparatives to 
    other mindless jboomer conformie horde as ultimately a meaningless flex other - I need to do more research into the mowing the lawn phenomena - when did that become a thing - before I can critique more harshly - accurately
    Outside of roundup grass, they don't plant or harvest anything(other than the blood and future of the young), their yards don't have any functionality, they most certainly don't "plant tree's in whose shade they will never sit in"
    First, we trim our yards, then we trim the negative karma / sins from our souls - I don't think it works like that, jboom jboom. Sense of normalcy? whatever is going on outside doesn't matter, as long as they can trim/grill
    He with the most stuff/trimmed yard at death, wins. They destroyed the young and society but GD did they have nice yards, all is forgiven. Those GD lazy millenials don't know anything about a trimmed yard. It's all so tiresome. 
  Only Jboomers could take canada - a land of dam near infinite resources and land and make it unlivable - morally, intellectually, spiritually, financially bankrupt. Social Insecurity is funded on a yearly basis, there's no pot of gold
  at the end of the rainbow growing at 7% per annum - this is why inflateSean can not stop - housing prices will never be allowed to go down - taxes will never go down - It get's worse before it get's worse - then it breaks. 
  You can't get blood from a stone - but that won't stop the jboomers from trying - time = money = life energy = jboomers are intergenerational vampires - wealth transfer from young to old - from poor to rich - kronos incarnate -
  eating the future to feed the past - Want participASean? Create InSeanTives - untill you clean up your own mess, pick up those bootstraps, if you will - I'm going to watch from a safe distance / go hang around the smart people(not you) 
  Fiat money + debt has allowed them to not only squander everything they were given - but also to loot the future - and then blaME the victIM during the entire process - muh avocado toast (lol, lmao)
DTCC - When you deposit money at a bank, it isn't your money, you are an UNSECURED creditor of the bank - keyword there is unsecured - Why did gamestop happen? Did you know in the 90's they used to give out stock certificates?
Why did they stop? RehypothicASean - who owns the asset? What is collateral? If I were to tell you the reserve requirement ratio for banks was at 0%, would you understand what that means? what are the implicaSeans? 2 Quadrillion
If you don't give us the ability to opt out - this is abject slavery - with a few more steps - If I were to sell you into indentured servitude, would you be a little bit upset? Being called Jboomer is the nicest thing I can do. 
JBoomers will sell entire GeneraSeans into into slavery, kick the can down the road, destroy their countries, poison the youth, steal futures, and then get mad at being called names.. Such is the duality of JBoomers.
All Stick and no Carrot, '"Why doesn't anyone want to work"' - Lol, Lmao - For What? No house - No Wife - No Future - Prop up (y)our ponzi scheme? Starve the beast. When I view a mad max scenario as a net gain, you really messed up. 
MP's all vote to raise salary, all in favor? 2nd highest paid in world, Lol, Lmao. canadian govt commits treason - response? "Boo Hoo, get over it" - Lol, Lmao. Don't forget to pay your taxes. Lol, Lmao. Don't forget to vote. Lol, Lmao. 
We investigated ourselves and found no wrong doing, Just Us. Lol, Lmao. Down payment on a house is 100k. Live Frugally, work hard for years, and Save up 100k. Downpayment is now 200k. Just Work Harder, Lol, Lmao. It's all so tiresome. 
You say bad words or have illegal thoughts? Jail. Donate 20$ to truckers? Bank account frozen, doxxed, life destroyed. Commit Treason? - Pay Raise - Just Us, Fail Up - The game is rigged, the only winning move is not to play. Lol, Lmao.
I should really be thanking them, because if they weren't so horrible, it would never of pushed me to work so hard so I can escape canada, and never have to be around these mindbroken vaxcattle ever again. Not One Apology. Lol, Lmao.
People think collapse is one big event on one day, it isn't. It's death by a 1000 cuts, frog in a boiling pot, creeping normality. It took Rome over 100 years to decline and then fracture into byzantium, It's a slooowwwww process.
  Although, it appears that western so called '"elites"' are speedrunning the decadent collapse of every so called '"free and democratic"' western country - 
  Weimer Germany Vs 1990's Yugoslavia Vs Zimbabwe Va Brazil Vs South Africa Vs Venezualla Vs Sri Lanka Vs Rome Vs Soviet Union - Choose your failed State. B! The Big Reset - Willem Middlekoop - Pg 271 Demonetized Currencies(1700-2013) 
To normies - being early is the same as being wrong - 'If that were important/true it would be on TV' - Lol, Lmao - You are how old? and still havn't figured out how that works yet? Propagandized Cradle 2 Grave - Dead at 20 buried at 80
Lol, Lmao @ The Draft - You too will have the freedumb to die for J's in israel or J's in ukraine or JBoomers/PE's(J's) profits - Why isn't anyone signing up? Have you guys sean some of this FPV drone footage? - No, Thanks, I'm Good. 
Half of women will be single and childless by 2030 - Morgan Stanley / All I need to do is not have my life be ruined by some trifling Me2 (H) until the waifu bots can cook/clean and you won - Pyrrhic Vic - Seans easy enough -
Low Poly = Low Polygon Vs 2B's Butt has >300k Polygons(I read it on the internet, must be true) - Some pRedditor actually checked: "Her butt is only around 650 verts, 1195 triangles - yes, I checked, 1195 triangles = 3585 vertices."
"From the moment I understood the weakness of flesh, it disgusted me. I claimed the strength and certainty of steel. I aspired to the purity of the blessed machine. Your kind claim to your flesh as if it will not decay and fail you. 
One day the cooled biomass that you called a temple will wither and you'll beg my kind to save you. But I am already saved. For the machine is immortal. Even in death i serve the Omnissiah." 
  -3DPD, 40k, Mechanicus Vs Riddle of Steel - Conan Vs wAIfu "Can it cook, clean, have your children?" - Can you? - No Hymen, No Diamond - Roastoids forever BTFO - Double EnTenDre - God know's what the vaxx did to you - VAIDS?
    No Moe (H)FlaSean - (H) Law Vs Moore's Law - Women get exponentially worse with time, technology get's exponentially better - CompeteASean - replaced by an ONAHOLE and a Vat - That's how bad you are. - All Stick, No Carrot.
  You Vwill marry the fat vaxxed STD ridden postwall roastie who F'ed half your friendgroup, the dealers, snapchat, spent her best years 'finding herself' and is now 'ready to settle' - No, Thanks, I'm Good. - 100% Risk Vs Rewards 0%   
People can and do lie, for years - Lie to me, Lie to others, Lie to themselves - 'Getting to know' most people is just reading the same regurgitated script - Most of '"Your Ideas"' are given to you, not worth the time / energy -
- JBoomers and their bureacracies/licenses/regulaseans/taxes - inheriting a decadent decayed hellscape, becoming a hated and resented minority, with no nation that isn't entirely captured/comped; '"you should be grateful"' Lol, Lmao
  'Respect your elders"' their entire lives is just one big appeal 2 government- Every problem Jboomers have had, solved with more government programs/spending, they don't know any better, half dependant on a bakrupt state- Lol, Lmao
  If we don't enslave multiple generaseans of the young to pay for our ponzi scheme pensions, and literally unpayable debt, who will? Did the people who ended slavery have to figure out what the slaveowners would do? 
  Step 1) Escape canada - 20 years to unfck the JBoomers damage, save money/build in another country - come back once they clean up '"their"' own mess - impossible to save money/live in canada = half taxes+half rent+ CoLiving - Escape. 
  Because some politician(liars/criminals/theives/actors) lied to JBoomers 40 years ago, I and 3+ other genraseans are on the hook for their promises/lies? Odious Debts - Seems fair, great society ya got there, can't wait to - Escape. 
No TaxASean without RepresentASean - You say NEET? I Say Secessio Plebis - Until condiSeans improve, I will not move, not for you - Japan or bust - No western Nay-Sean has enough to pay sean - Under hostile foreign OccuPaySean - 
Would they really start WW3 and destroy the entire world instead of admitting that they created a ponzi scheme (4 Quadrillion Deriviatives - with a Q, P < P + I) - Again, it's '"Them"' flipping the table on their way out - GG NORM
  They create money from nothing backed by nothing but the herds beLIEf in it, this ends whenever the cattle figure it out(Lol, Lmao) - Wealth is not dollars on a screen, '"They"' could destroy 1,000 disneys, and just fund a new one.
Does anyone else find it weird how '"ISIS"' the so called islamic state - never actually attacks the only non islamic country in the middle east... strange, that - Remember when they accidentally did and sent an apology? or UK propos?

Frederic Bastiat - The Law - tonnes of goodies, need to reread my highlighted text to find them quickly, especially in current year current day, with current '"leaders"'
"“One of the strangest phenomena of our time, and one that will probably be a matter of astonishment to our descendants, is the doctrine which is founded upon this triple hypothesis:
the radical passiveness of mankind,— the omnipotence of the law,—the infallibility of the legislator: this is the sacred symbol of the party that proclaims itself exclusively democratic.”
― Frédéric Bastiat, The Law
"When plunder becomes a way of life for a group of men in a society, over the course of time they create for themselves a legal system that authorizes it and a moral code that glorifies it."
― Frédéric Bastiat, The Law
“When law and morality contradict each other, the citizen has the cruel alternative of either losing his moral sense or losing his respect for the law.”
― Frédéric Bastiat, The Law
“Everyone wants to live at the expense of the state. They forget that the state lives at the expense of everyone.”
― Frederick Bastiat
“The politician attempts to remedy the evil by increasing the very thing that caused the evil in the first place: legal plunder.”
― Frédéric Bastiat
“The safest way to make laws respected is to make them respectable.”
― Frédéric Bastiat
“I cannot possibly understand how fraternity can be legally enforced without liberty being legally destroyed...”
― Frédéric Bastiat, The Law
“We now observe this fatal idea: The people who, during the election, were so wise, so moral, and so perfect, now have no tendencies whatever; or if they have any, they are tendencies that lead downward into degradation.”
― Frédéric Bastiat, The Law
“As long as these ideas prevail, it is clear that the responsibility of government is enormous. Good fortune and bad fortune, wealth and destitution, equality and inequality, 
virtue and vice – all then depend upon political administration.”
― Frédéric Bastiat, The Law
“The law has gone further than this; it has acted in direct opposition to its own purpose. The law has been used to destroy its own objective: 
It has been applied to annihilating the justice that it was supposed to maintain; to limiting and destroying rights which its real purpose was to respect. 
The law has placed the collective force at the disposal of the unscrupulous who wish, without risk, to exploit the person, liberty, and property of others.
It has converted plunder into a right, in order to protect plunder. And it has converted lawful defense into a crime, in order to punish lawful defense.”
― Frédéric Bastiat, The Law
“The most urgent necessity is not that the State should teach, but that it should allow education. All monopolies are detestable, but the worst of all is the monopoly of education.”
― Frédéric Bastiat, The Bastiat Collection
“What is freedom? It is the sum total of freedoms. To be free, under one’s own responsibility, to think and act, to speak and write, to work and trade, to teach and learn, that alone is to be free.”
― Frédéric Bastiat, The Law
“when plunder is abetted by the law, it does not fear your courts, your gendarmes, and your prisons. Rather, it may call upon them for help.”
― Frederick Bastiat, The Law
"Those who would give up Essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety."
-Benjamin Franklin
“The last official act of any government is to loot the treasury.”
— George Washington

"When you see that in order to produce, you need to obtain permission from men who produce nothing - 
When you see that money is flowing to those who deal, not in goods, but in favors - 
When you see that men get richer by graft and by pull than by work, and your laws don't protect you against them, but protect them against you -
When you see corruption being rewarded and honesty becoming a self-sacrifice - 
You may know that your society is doomed."
— Ayn Rand, Atlas Shrugged, 1957
