Answer the question "So, tell me about yourself?" in 2 minutes or less

When asked a question answer as a STAR story
STAR Method: Situation -> Task -> Action -> Result

Activity Overview

In this optional activity, you will prepare for your target role in project management by creating an elevator pitch to use in your job search. 

Once submitted, your peers will review your work and provide feedback.

Scenario
less 
Review the scenario below. The complete the step-by-step instructions.


An elevator pitch is a brief, persuasive speech about an idea, product, company, or individual (like you). You should be able to deliver your elevator pitch in the amount of time it takes to ride an elevator with someone from one floor to another. An elevator pitch is typically 30-60 seconds long, or approximately 75-150 words. 

To create a strong elevator pitch, you need to consider how to present yourself as a potential candidate for a specific role. Before you begin writing the pitch itself, you will identify and highlight the key information you want to share. Then, you will write a 30-60-second pitch. 

Step-By-Step Assignment Instructions
less 
Part 1 - Identify and highlight key information
Step 1: Prepare a brainstorming document

Start a new word document on your computer in your word processing software of choice. You will use this document to prepare your elevator pitch.

Step 2: Identify your target role

To ensure you can frame your experience to the industry, you need to have a clear understanding of the project management role you want to perform. First, search for project management roles (like project manager, project coordinator, operations assistant, or program manager) on a platform like indeed.com, linkedin.com/jobs, or careerbuilder.com. Then, identify three roles that look interesting to you.


Step 3: Identify key skills and experience needed

Review the job descriptions you identified in Step 2. Record the skills and requirements you already meet and those you’re interested in developing. You will use this information as you plan your elevator pitch.

Remember, almost everyone uses project management skills in their daily lives. For example, even though you may not have managed a formal project budget, you may be really good at keeping track of your personal or family budget. You can explain how your personal experience relates to project management skills like these in your elevator pitch. 

Part 2 - Create your pitch
Step 1: Introduce yourself

When you start a conversation with someone you’ve never met before, you introduce yourself. The elevator pitch is no different. 

Introduce yourself in 1-2 sentences, answering the question, “Who are you?” You can include your name, where you’re from, your current job, or your passions and hobbies. 

Step 2: Address the role

In an elevator pitch, you need to get to the point as quickly as possible. Write 1-2 sentences describing the role and stating why it interests you. 

Step 3: Address your experience and skills

Review the list of skills and requirements you recorded in Step 3. Think about how these skills and requirements align with your own experience.

In 2-3 sentences, highlight your relevant experience and skills to discuss the value you bring to the role. Consider your strengths that make you a good fit for that role. Showcase your talent or a particular anecdote about a time you really excelled.


Step 4: End by engaging your listener

End with an engaging question or ask the listener for next steps. For instance, you could ask a question about a specific part of the role you find particularly interesting. You could also ask to set up some time to discuss it further. Ending with a question or request encourages your listener to engage in a conversation. 

Step 5: Revise and proofread your draft

Once you’re done with your first draft, go back and revise. If necessary, cut down the text to fit within the 30-60 second limit (or about 75 to 150 words). Remember, you want to be able to quickly deliver your elevator pitch and capture your listener’s attention. Try reading your pitch out loud while you proofread. This can help you catch any awkward phrasing and refine your writing. 

Review criteria
less 
There are a total of 6 points for this activity. At least two of your peers will evaluate your elevator pitch. Your final grade will be the median of these scores. You must get 5 out of 6 total points to pass.

Example Submissions
less 
Here’s a sample elevator pitch from a job seeker reaching out to a connection they made through a friend: 

“Hi, my name is Alex. I’m currently a retail sales associate at [name of company], and I’m hoping to translate my passion for working with people and with teams to being a project manager at [name of company]. I’m interested in the project manager role because I love organizing and communication systems. I've put these skills to good use organizing events in my community. I’ve heard great things about how your company focuses on building products that are inclusive of all users—inclusivity is something I’m very passionate about! Could you tell me more about what it’s like being a project manager at [name of company]? 

Let’s go over what makes this is a good pitch:

It begins with a clear and concise introduction.

It states the role Alex is interested in at the end of the second sentence.

It mentions why they are interested in the company.

It clearly captures their skills and experience in a sentence or two. It also specifically addresses project management skills, but doesn’t go into too much detail.

It ends with a question specific to the role at the company to encourage conversation. 

It falls within the word limit.

Examples of Good Feedback
less 
Once you complete the activity, review and provide constructive feedback for at least two classmates. Below are some guidelines to help you leave constructive comments for your peers. 

When giving feedback, consider:

Leading with positive feedback

Providing a balance of positive and constructive feedback

Sticking to information-specific, issue-focused, and observation centered comments
