Project management job categories and common roles 
Introductory-level project management roles
Entry-level project management positions are a great opportunity to get your foot in the door and learn the ins and outs of how a company operates and manages projects. The lessons you learn from these experiences are extremely valuable to your growth in project management. Some entry-level project management positions include:

Junior Project Manager: Performs all aspects of being a project manager alongside a more experienced professional.

Project Administrator: Assists the rest of the project team with administrative tasks. 

Project/Program Assistant: Supports team members working on a project and offers administrative support. May perform research or create training documents along with other jobs as assigned by program leaders.

Project/Program Coordinator: Participates in hands-on project work and administrative tasks. Works under a project manager to make sure projects are completed on time and within budget.

Project Support Specialist: Works alongside a project manager and team members to oversee assigned projects. May also be responsible for training and developing employees to perform designated tasks.

Traditional project management roles
Once you have gained some experience in introductory-level positions, you can explore traditional project management roles, such as:

Project Manager: Responsible for the initiating, planning, executing, monitoring, and closing of a project. Includes industry-specific titles like IT project manager, construction project manager, or engineering project manager, which utilize skills that are transferable among industries.

Project Analyst: Moves a project along by sharing information, providing support through data analysis, and contributing to strategy and performance. 

Project Leader/Director: Drives core decision-making and sets the direction for the project. Usually knowledgeable about the product or deliverable. 

Project Controller: Primarily responsible for project planning. You are likely to see this job title in industries like engineering and construction.

Technical Project Manager: Conducts project planning and management for identified goals within a company. Ensures that projects are completed to the requirements within a defined time frame and budget.

Project Management Office (PMO) Analyst: Manages the progress of complex projects to ensure timely execution and completion. 
